NICE_TA786_final_appraisal.txt: 46 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 2010)
    ...2 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED The economic model does not take into account all of the benefits of tucatinib combination, particularly for people with brain metastases. Taking this into account, the cost-effectiveness estimates for tucatinib combination are likely to be within what NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. So, tucatinib combination is recommended. 2 Information about tucatinib Ma...

[2] term: '£5,636' (char offset 2703)
    ... least 2 prior anti-HER2 treatment regimens’. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in tucatinib's summary of product characteristics. Price 2.3 The list price is £5,636.84 per 84-pack of 150 mg film-coated tablets (excluding VAT; BNF online accessed February 2022). The average cost of a course of combination treatment at list prices is £7,016.91 for the loading dose...

[3] term: '£7,016' (char offset 2879)
    ...e 2.3 The list price is £5,636.84 per 84-pack of 150 mg film-coated tablets (excluding VAT; BNF online accessed February 2022). The average cost of a course of combination treatment at list prices is £7,016.91 for the loading dose and £6,677.14 for the following cycles (company submission). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes tucatinib available t...

[4] term: '£6,677' (char offset 2914)
    ...er 84-pack of 150 mg film-coated tablets (excluding VAT; BNF online accessed February 2022). The average cost of a course of combination treatment at list prices is £7,016.91 for the loading dose and £6,677.14 for the following cycles (company submission). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes tucatinib available to the NHS with a discount. The size...

[5] term: 'discount' (char offset 3020)
    ...ost of a course of combination treatment at list prices is £7,016.91 for the loading dose and £6,677.14 for the following cycles (company submission). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes tucatinib available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organis...

[6] term: 'discount' (char offset 3102)
    ...ng dose and £6,677.14 for the following cycles (company submission). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes tucatinib available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final appraisal document– Tucatinib with tras...

[7] term: 'discount' (char offset 3128)
    ...the following cycles (company submission). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes tucatinib available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final appraisal document– Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine f...

[8] term: 'discount' (char offset 3255)
    ...is makes tucatinib available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final appraisal document– Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Issue date: March 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL ...

[9] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 3510)
    ...tuzumab and capecitabine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Issue date: March 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by Seagen UK, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG), responses from stakeholders and comments on the first appraisal consultation document. See the committ...

[10] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 3778)
    ...is submission by the evidence review group (ERG), responses from stakeholders and comments on the first appraisal consultation document. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. The committee discussed the following issues. Clinical need and treatment pathway HER2-positive breast cancer has a high disease burden 3.1 Some breast cancer cells have higher levels of a protein called HER2 on their surfa...

[11] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 6588)
    ... that, although some NHS trusts may offer third-line anti-HER2 therapy, it is not available across the NHS and cannot be considered standard care. Trastuzumab deruxtecan is only available through the Cancer Drugs Fund so is not considered standard care (see NICE’s technology appraisal guidance on trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 th...

[12] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 8045)
    ...ch 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED further treatment options that target brain metastases because most chemotherapy treatments have very limited capacity to cross from the blood into the brain. The committee concluded that there is a high unmet need for anti-HER2 treatment after second-line anti-HER2 treatment. This is particularly important for the significant proportion of people who have brain metastases, becau...

[13] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 9290)
    ...ine, there is wide regional variation in its availability. As it is not available to all patients in the NHS, the committee agreed that trastuzumab with capecitabine is not a relevant comparator. The committee concluded that the relevant comparators for tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine (from now referred to as tucatinib combination) are capecitabine, vinorelbine and eribulin. Clinical evidence The HER2CLI...

[14] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 10308)
    ...UBLISHED explained that HER2CLIMB represents patients in the NHS in terms of characteristics and previous treatment, including the proportion of people who will go on to develop brain metastases. The committee concluded that the population in HER2CLIMB was generalisable to the eligible population in clinical practice in the UK. Tucatinib combination is more effective than trastuzumab with capecitabine, but this comp...

[15] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 11792)
    ...ained that the clinical data in the company submission was supported by some longer follow-up data from the trial, which was presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting. The committee concluded that tucatinib combination is more effective than trastuzumab with capecitabine, but that this comparison does not reflect NHS practice. The committee also noted that the impact on brain metastases i...

[16] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 13791)
    ... between patient populations were the number of previous therapies, prior anti-HER2 treatment, HER2 positivity status, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status and family background. The committee concluded that tucatinib is likely to improve clinical outcomes relative to eribulin, capecitabine and vinorelbine, but the size of the effect is uncertain. This is because there was clinical heterogeneity in ...

[17] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 15168)
    ... consultation and updated its base case accordingly. The committee noted that the results from using the 2 methods were similar, although the random effects model gave wider confidence intervals. The committee concluded that the random effects methodology was more appropriate because of heterogeneity in the network, and acknowledged it was used by the company in its updated base case. However, it noted that using a ...

[18] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 18170)
    ...l non-HER2-targeted therapies considered as comparators in this appraisal. However, the company acknowledged this represents a naive comparison between different populations in different studies. The committee concluded that the network meta-analysis results could be adjusted for a treatment-modifying effect of brain metastases. It noted that this analysis is still likely to be highly uncertain, but nevertheless use...

[19] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 20067)
    ... upward kink in survival estimates was because it relied on clinician predictions at specific timepoints, without smoothing out between these timepoints. However, it noted that if it had done so, the cost-effectiveness estimates would decrease slightly. The company explained that the approach using the HER2CLIMB data did not capture any additional treatment effect from HER2-targeted therapy (trastuzumab) in the pla...

[20] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 20854)
    ...2CLIMB data-driven approach, over the clinician’s estimations. It concluded that this approach did not account for any benefit from trastuzumab and may be conservative, and acknowledged that the true cost-effectiveness estimates are likely to be lower than those estimated using the data-driven approach. Final appraisal document– Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast ...

[21] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 21167)
    ...praisal document– Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Issue date: March 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Cost-effectiveness evidence The company’s economic model is suitable for decision making 3.10 The company submitted a partitioned survival model to estimate the cost effectiveness of tucatinib combination compared with...

[22] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 21495)
    ...d survival model to estimate the cost effectiveness of tucatinib combination compared with eribulin, capecitabine and vinorelbine. It had 3 health states: progression-free, progressed, and death. The committee considered that the partitioned survival model is a standard approach to estimate the cost effectiveness of cancer drugs and is suitable for decision making. Directly extrapolating HER2CLIMB data is most approp...

[23] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 21591)
    ...lin, capecitabine and vinorelbine. It had 3 health states: progression-free, progressed, and death. The committee considered that the partitioned survival model is a standard approach to estimate the cost effectiveness of cancer drugs and is suitable for decision making. Directly extrapolating HER2CLIMB data is most appropriate for estimating progression-free and overall survival for tucatinib and the comparators 3...

[24] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 24650)
    ...erence to directly extrapolate survival data from HER2CLIMB trial. The subgroup analyses have methodological limitations and are not appropriate for decision making 3.12 The company did not model the cost effectiveness of tucatinib combination relative to its comparators separately for people with and without brain metastases because there was limited evidence on the efficacy of comparators in people with brain met...

[25] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 27078)
    ...ates. The company further stated that it was not able to do subgroup analyses for people without brain metastases because of time constraints. Instead, it used a weighted average approach to estimate cost effectiveness in this subgroup. The ERG explained these estimates were not accurate because the survival curves were likely to differ between the 2 subgroups, which was not explored. It also explained that increme...

[26] term: 'ICER' (char offset 27332)
    ... these estimates were not accurate because the survival curves were likely to differ between the 2 subgroups, which was not explored. It also explained that incremental cost- effectiveness estimates (ICERs) are ratios and cannot be directly used to estimate weighted averages. Instead, weighted averages of the total costs and total quality-adjusted life years would need to be estimated and used to calc...

[27] term: 'ICER' (char offset 27546)
    ...ios and cannot be directly used to estimate weighted averages. Instead, weighted averages of the total costs and total quality-adjusted life years would need to be estimated and used to calculate the ICER for the non-brain-metastases subgroup. It also noted that the results did not account for the cost of screening people for brain metastases. The committee concluded that the subgroup analyses had met...

[28] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 27696)
    ...ld need to be estimated and used to calculate the ICER for the non-brain-metastases subgroup. It also noted that the results did not account for the cost of screening people for brain metastases. The committee concluded that the subgroup analyses had methodological limitations and were not described in sufficient detail for adequate scrutiny. Therefore, it concluded that the subgroup analyses were not appropriate fo...

[29] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 33553)
    ... overestimate the benefit of tucatinib combination. • The alternative approach of assuming equal post-progression utility after tucatinib and single-agent chemotherapy is most likely pessimistic. The committee concluded that some differences in post-progression health state utilities are plausible, but uncertain. Although the ERG incorporated the company’s revised utilities in its base case, the committee remained c...

[30] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 33855)
    ...t uncertain. Although the ERG incorporated the company’s revised utilities in its base case, the committee remained concerned that if the difference in post-progression utility was overestimated, the cost-effectiveness estimates would be slightly higher than those estimated by the company. It noted that in future it would prefer evidence-based utilities and additional scenarios to be explored. Standard NHS practice...

[31] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 35583)
    ...he company presented scenario analyses assuming different levels of subcutaneous trastuzumab usage. The ERG provided an additional scenario analysis assuming 100% use of subcutaneous trastuzumab. The Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead explained that over 90% of patients have trastuzumab subcutaneously in the NHS. Some people may choose to have intravenous trastuzumab if subcutaneous administration is not appropriate ...

[32] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 36211)
    ...been captured in the current modelling, such as fewer hospital visits, and convenience and quality of life benefits for patients. Fewer hospital visits may also help reduce COVID-19 transmission. The committee concluded that subcutaneous trastuzumab is standard care in the NHS and could have unaccounted-for benefits for patients and service delivery. Drug wastage should be included in the analysis 3.16 In its initia...

[33] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 36726)
    ...ase because it is packaged in multi- use vials. The ERG preferred to include this because some wastage is expected in clinical practice. It noted this has a very small effect on overall costs and the cost-effectiveness estimates. It also noted that this applied to intravenous administration only and was not relevant for analyses Final appraisal document– Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine for treating HER2...

[34] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 37225)
    ...March 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED assuming subcutaneous administration of trastuzumab. The company agreed with the ERG in its response to consultation and updated its base case accordingly. The committee concluded that drug wastage should be included in the analysis and acknowledged this was done appropriately by the company in its revised base case. End of life Tucatinib combination meets the end of life crit...

[35] term: 'End of life' (char offset 37384)
    ...d updated its base case accordingly. The committee concluded that drug wastage should be included in the analysis and acknowledged this was done appropriately by the company in its revised base case. End of life Tucatinib combination meets the end of life criteria 3.17 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s guide to the methods of...

[36] term: 'end of life' (char offset 37428)
    ...mittee concluded that drug wastage should be included in the analysis and acknowledged this was done appropriately by the company in its revised base case. End of life Tucatinib combination meets the end of life criteria 3.17 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s guide to the methods of technology appraisal. The clinical experts ...

[37] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 37458)
    ...tage should be included in the analysis and acknowledged this was done appropriately by the company in its revised base case. End of life Tucatinib combination meets the end of life criteria 3.17 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s guide to the methods of technology appraisal. The clinical experts and the ERG agreed that the life expect...

[38] term: 'end of life' (char offset 37962)
    ...ng third-line treatment is less than 24 months. They also agreed that the gain in life expectancy with tucatinib combination is expected to be greater than 3 months. The committee also noted that the end of life criteria were accepted in TA423 and TA704 in a third-line setting, and in TA458 in a second-line setting. The committee concluded that tucatinib meets the end of life criteria. Cost-effectiveness res...

[39] term: 'end of life' (char offset 38129)
    ...he committee also noted that the end of life criteria were accepted in TA423 and TA704 in a third-line setting, and in TA458 in a second-line setting. The committee concluded that tucatinib meets the end of life criteria. Cost-effectiveness results Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine is likely to be cost effective 3.18 Because of confidential commercial arrangements for tucatinib, trastuzumab, eribul...

[40] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 38151)
    ...d that the end of life criteria were accepted in TA423 and TA704 in a third-line setting, and in TA458 in a second-line setting. The committee concluded that tucatinib meets the end of life criteria. Cost-effectiveness results Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine is likely to be cost effective 3.18 Because of confidential commercial arrangements for tucatinib, trastuzumab, eribulin and post-progression thera...

[41] term: 'ICER' (char offset 38379)
    ...ucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine is likely to be cost effective 3.18 Because of confidential commercial arrangements for tucatinib, trastuzumab, eribulin and post-progression therapies, the ICERs cannot be reported here. The company addressed a number of the committee’s concerns in its response to consultation, including: • using a random effects network meta-analysis (see section 3.7) • exp...

[42] term: 'discount' (char offset 39912)
    ...post-progression utility values for tucatinib combination or assumed the same post-progression utility values for tucatinib combination (see section 3.14). Taking into account all of the confidential discounts, the committee concluded that, compared with chemotherapy, the cost-effectiveness estimates for tucatinib combination are likely to be within the range that NICE considers a cost-effective use of NH...

[43] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 39985)
    ...same post-progression utility values for tucatinib combination (see section 3.14). Taking into account all of the confidential discounts, the committee concluded that, compared with chemotherapy, the cost-effectiveness estimates for tucatinib combination are likely to be within the range that NICE considers a cost-effective use of NHS resources. Innovation Tucatinib has a novel mechanism of action and not all of it...

[44] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 41737)
    ...l authorities to comply with the recommendations in this appraisal within 3 months of its date of publication. 4.2 Chapter 2 of Appraisal and funding of cancer drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for routine commissioning, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer Drugs ...

[45] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 41941)
    ...er Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for routine commissioning, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer Drugs Fund budget) from the point of marketing authorisation, or from release of positive draft guidance, whichever is later. Interim funding will end 90 days after positive final guidance is published (or 30 d...

[46] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 42367)
    ...e case of drugs with an Early Access to Medicines Scheme designation or fast track appraisal), at which point funding will switch to routine commissioning budgets. The NHS England and NHS Improvement Cancer Drugs Fund list provides up-to- Final appraisal document– Tucatinib with trastuzumab and capecitabine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Issue date: March 2022...