NICE_TA569_final_appraisal.txt: 49 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: '1.2' (char offset 534)
    ...tor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive early stage breast cancer in adults, only if:  they have lymph-node-positive disease  the company provides it according to the commercial arrangement (see section 2). 1.2 This guidance is not intended to affect adjuvant treatment with pertuzumab that was started in the NHS before this guidance was published. People having treatment outside this recommendation may cont...

[2] term: '1.7' (char offset 1203)
    ... benefit for pertuzumab in the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early stage breast cancer at high risk of recurrence. Clinical trial evidence measuring invasive disease-free survival suggests that 1.7% fewer people with this type of cancer have invasive disease at 4 years with adjuvant pertuzumab. Evidence from people with lymph-node-positive disease (that is, disease that has spread to lymph node...

[3] term: '£20,000' (char offset 1989)
    ... overall length of time people live. Because of the uncertainty in the clinical-effectiveness evidence, the cost- effectiveness estimates are very uncertain. Given this uncertainty, an estimate above £20,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained is not considered a cost- effective use of NHS resources. The company’s final model, includes only people with lymph node-positive disease, and incorporat...

[4] term: 'QALY' (char offset 2029)
    ...ause of the uncertainty in the clinical-effectiveness evidence, the cost- effectiveness estimates are very uncertain. Given this uncertainty, an estimate above £20,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained is not considered a cost- effective use of NHS resources. The company’s final model, includes only people with lymph node-positive disease, and incorporates the committee’s preferred conserva...

[5] term: 'discount' (char offset 2346)
    ...e with lymph node-positive disease, and incorporates the committee’s preferred conservative estimates of how long treatment benefit with pertuzumab lasts after treatment is stopped. If the commercial discount to the price of pertuzumab, together with a weighted discount for biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab are taken into consideration, the cost-effectiveness estimate is comfortably below £20,000 per QAL...

[6] term: 'discount' (char offset 2408)
    ...ttee’s preferred conservative estimates of how long treatment benefit with pertuzumab lasts after treatment is stopped. If the commercial discount to the price of pertuzumab, together with a weighted discount for biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab are taken into consideration, the cost-effectiveness estimate is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained. Therefore adjuvant pertuzumab is recommended for HER...

[7] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 2490)
    ...mab lasts after treatment is stopped. If the commercial discount to the price of pertuzumab, together with a weighted discount for biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab are taken into consideration, the cost-effectiveness estimate is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained. Therefore adjuvant pertuzumab is recommended for HER2-positive early stage breast cancer in people with lymph-node-positive disease. Final appra...

[8] term: '£20,000' (char offset 2539)
    ...ercial discount to the price of pertuzumab, together with a weighted discount for biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab are taken into consideration, the cost-effectiveness estimate is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained. Therefore adjuvant pertuzumab is recommended for HER2-positive early stage breast cancer in people with lymph-node-positive disease. Final appraisal consultation document Page 2 of 1...

[9] term: 'QALY' (char offset 2551)
    ...unt to the price of pertuzumab, together with a weighted discount for biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab are taken into consideration, the cost-effectiveness estimate is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained. Therefore adjuvant pertuzumab is recommended for HER2-positive early stage breast cancer in people with lymph-node-positive disease. Final appraisal consultation document Page 2 of 14 Pertuzu...

[10] term: '£2,395' (char offset 3379)
    ...n 3 weeks. Pertuzumab should be given with trastuzumab and chemotherapy for 1 year (maximum 18 cycles) for patients with high-risk disease, regardless of the timing of surgery. Price Pertuzumab costs £2,395 per 420-mg vial; trastuzumab costs £407.4 per 150-mg vial (excluding VAT; British national formulary online, accessed May 2018). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient acce...

[11] term: '£407' (char offset 3421)
    ... trastuzumab and chemotherapy for 1 year (maximum 18 cycles) for patients with high-risk disease, regardless of the timing of surgery. Price Pertuzumab costs £2,395 per 420-mg vial; trastuzumab costs £407.4 per 150-mg vial (excluding VAT; British national formulary online, accessed May 2018). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes pertuzumab availa...

[12] term: 'discount' (char offset 3564)
    ...rtuzumab costs £2,395 per 420-mg vial; trastuzumab costs £407.4 per 150-mg vial (excluding VAT; British national formulary online, accessed May 2018). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes pertuzumab available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organi...

[13] term: 'discount' (char offset 3647)
    ...cluding VAT; British national formulary online, accessed May 2018). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes pertuzumab available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committe...

[14] term: 'discount' (char offset 3673)
    ...nal formulary online, accessed May 2018). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes pertuzumab available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee (section 6) considered e...

[15] term: 'discount' (char offset 3800)
    ...s makes pertuzumab available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee (section 6) considered evidence submitted by Roche and a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG). See the committee papers for ful...

[16] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 5900)
    ...NITY trial, see section 3.3) to be worthwhile. However, they noted that most patients would consider a reduced risk of recurrence worth the potential inconvenience of spending longer in hospital. The committee concluded that although the absolute benefit of pertuzumab over trastuzumab and chemotherapy in the APHINITY trial is low, patients and their families would welcome any new treatment options that could reduce ...

[17] term: '1.7' (char offset 11840)
    ...ntion-to-treat population, the absolute difference in invasive disease-free survival event rates between the 2 treatment arms was very small. When pertuzumab was added to trastuzumab and chemotherapy 1.7% fewer people had invasive disease at 4 years. From this, the committee concluded that the incremental treatment benefit of pertuzumab for the whole population is likely to be small. Whether pertuzum...

[18] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 11906)
    ...ease-free survival event rates between the 2 treatment arms was very small. When pertuzumab was added to trastuzumab and chemotherapy 1.7% fewer people had invasive disease at 4 years. From this, the committee concluded that the incremental treatment benefit of pertuzumab for the whole population is likely to be small. Whether pertuzumab’s relative treatment effect is greater for lymph-node- positive than lymph-node...

[19] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 16846)
    ...nowledged that some of the adverse events experienced by patients in APHINITY occurred when they were also having chemotherapy treatment, which may have contributed to some of the adverse events. The committee concluded on the basis of the patient and clinical expert testimony that pertuzumab is acceptable to patients. Cost-effectiveness model The model structure is appropriate but results in an unusual treatment-ef...

[20] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 16967)
    ...erapy treatment, which may have contributed to some of the adverse events. The committee concluded on the basis of the patient and clinical expert testimony that pertuzumab is acceptable to patients. Cost-effectiveness model The model structure is appropriate but results in an unusual treatment-effect profile 3.7 The company’s updated cost-effectiveness model focused on the lymph- node-positive population. Inputs w...

[21] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 17104)
    ...al expert testimony that pertuzumab is acceptable to patients. Cost-effectiveness model The model structure is appropriate but results in an unusual treatment-effect profile 3.7 The company’s updated cost-effectiveness model focused on the lymph- node-positive population. Inputs were based on data for the relevant subgroups from APHINITY, as well as on information from other relevant sources. Rates of invasive dise...

[22] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 18733)
    ...-effect duration, or its decline, in the absence of more mature data. It accepted the ERG’s conclusion that the choice of parametric curves and the rationale for the adjustments seems reasonable. The committee concluded that although the overall design and structure of the model appears acceptable, there is inherent uncertainty in the extrapolation of treatment benefit. Cost-effectiveness estimates There is substant...

[23] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 18906)
    ...ents seems reasonable. The committee concluded that although the overall design and structure of the model appears acceptable, there is inherent uncertainty in the extrapolation of treatment benefit. Cost-effectiveness estimates There is substantial uncertainty in the predicted benefit of adjuvant pertuzumab over a long time horizon 3.8 The company revised their cost-effectiveness analysis during the consultation o...

[24] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 19071)
    ...xtrapolation of treatment benefit. Cost-effectiveness estimates There is substantial uncertainty in the predicted benefit of adjuvant pertuzumab over a long time horizon 3.8 The company revised their cost-effectiveness analysis during the consultation on the appraisal consultation document. This was to make it better aligned to the ERG’s preferred assumptions (cure adjustment introduced at year 3, and a maximum cur...

[25] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 19975)
    ...ugh both the company’s and the ERG’s revised base-case analyses were informed by data from relevant sources, many assumptions had to be made because of the immaturity of the available trial data. The committee considered the estimate of overall Final appraisal consultation document Page 10 of 14 Pertuzumab for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early stage breast cancer Issue date: February 2019 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL P...

[26] term: 'QALY' (char offset 20624)
    ...e company’s revised model. However, despite this, there was still uncertainty in projecting a 3% benefit in disease-free survival in the lymph node-positive group to a 0.4 quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain. It also noted that any assessment of the acceptability of the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) should take this uncertain long-term benefit into account. The committee con...

[27] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 20720)
    ... benefit in disease-free survival in the lymph node-positive group to a 0.4 quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain. It also noted that any assessment of the acceptability of the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) should take this uncertain long-term benefit into account. The committee concluded that the long- term QALY gain is highly uncertain. Pertuzumab can be recommended for adjuvant treatment...

[28] term: 'ICER' (char offset 20746)
    ...urvival in the lymph node-positive group to a 0.4 quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain. It also noted that any assessment of the acceptability of the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) should take this uncertain long-term benefit into account. The committee concluded that the long- term QALY gain is highly uncertain. Pertuzumab can be recommended for adjuvant treatment of HER2-pos...

[29] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 20815)
    ...fe year (QALY) gain. It also noted that any assessment of the acceptability of the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) should take this uncertain long-term benefit into account. The committee concluded that the long- term QALY gain is highly uncertain. Pertuzumab can be recommended for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early stage breast cancer in people with lymph node-positive disease 3.9 The u...

[30] term: 'QALY' (char offset 20855)
    ...any assessment of the acceptability of the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) should take this uncertain long-term benefit into account. The committee concluded that the long- term QALY gain is highly uncertain. Pertuzumab can be recommended for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early stage breast cancer in people with lymph node-positive disease 3.9 The updated model included ass...

[31] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21166)
    ...e breast cancer in people with lymph node-positive disease 3.9 The updated model included assumptions preferred by the committee for the duration of treatment benefit, which had a large impact on the ICER, and a new commercial discount to the price of pertuzumab. The committee noted that biosimilars for intravenous trastuzumab are now available in England, which will reduce the overall cost of pertuzu...

[32] term: 'discount' (char offset 21193)
    ...ith lymph node-positive disease 3.9 The updated model included assumptions preferred by the committee for the duration of treatment benefit, which had a large impact on the ICER, and a new commercial discount to the price of pertuzumab. The committee noted that biosimilars for intravenous trastuzumab are now available in England, which will reduce the overall cost of pertuzumab combination therapy. It hea...

[33] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 21413)
    ...e of pertuzumab. The committee noted that biosimilars for intravenous trastuzumab are now available in England, which will reduce the overall cost of pertuzumab combination therapy. It heard from the Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead that the initial tendering process for biosimilar trastuzumab has only recently been completed, and that prices and market share are likely to change over time. The committee considered...

[34] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 21610)
    ...he Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead that the initial tendering process for biosimilar trastuzumab has only recently been completed, and that prices and market share are likely to change over time. The committee considered the current commercial-in- confidence price and biosimilar trastuzumab market share to be most appropriate for decision making because this is in line with what has been considered in other NICE appr...

[35] term: 'discount' (char offset 21900)
    ...b market share to be most appropriate for decision making because this is in line with what has been considered in other NICE appraisals. It considered that a weighted- average biosimilar trastuzumab discount gave the best estimate of current price for the purposes of estimating the ICER. The Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead also confirmed that the effect of introducing biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab o...

[36] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21984)
    ...th what has been considered in other NICE appraisals. It considered that a weighted- average biosimilar trastuzumab discount gave the best estimate of current price for the purposes of estimating the ICER. The Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead also confirmed that the effect of introducing biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab only needed to be considered in the intervention arm of the model because, if tra...

[37] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 21994)
    ...s been considered in other NICE appraisals. It considered that a weighted- average biosimilar trastuzumab discount gave the best estimate of current price for the purposes of estimating the ICER. The Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead also confirmed that the effect of introducing biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab only needed to be considered in the intervention arm of the model because, if trastuzumab is delivered w...

[38] term: 'discount' (char offset 22542)
    ...rage biosimilar Final appraisal consultation document Page 11 of 14 Pertuzumab for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early stage breast cancer Issue date: February 2019 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED discount and market share estimates were taken into account in the updated model the company’s base-case ICER was comfortably lower than £20,000 per QALY gained. The committee was aware that this ICER incorpo...

[39] term: 'ICER' (char offset 22647)
    ...HER2-positive early stage breast cancer Issue date: February 2019 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED discount and market share estimates were taken into account in the updated model the company’s base-case ICER was comfortably lower than £20,000 per QALY gained. The committee was aware that this ICER incorporated considerable uncertainty in: the size of the effect of pertuzumab on overall survival based on ...

[40] term: '£20,000' (char offset 22679)
    ... cancer Issue date: February 2019 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED discount and market share estimates were taken into account in the updated model the company’s base-case ICER was comfortably lower than £20,000 per QALY gained. The committee was aware that this ICER incorporated considerable uncertainty in: the size of the effect of pertuzumab on overall survival based on the APHINITY trial (see section 3.4...

[41] term: 'QALY' (char offset 22691)
    ...e date: February 2019 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED discount and market share estimates were taken into account in the updated model the company’s base-case ICER was comfortably lower than £20,000 per QALY gained. The committee was aware that this ICER incorporated considerable uncertainty in: the size of the effect of pertuzumab on overall survival based on the APHINITY trial (see section 3.4), the sp...

[42] term: 'ICER' (char offset 22738)
    ...HED discount and market share estimates were taken into account in the updated model the company’s base-case ICER was comfortably lower than £20,000 per QALY gained. The committee was aware that this ICER incorporated considerable uncertainty in: the size of the effect of pertuzumab on overall survival based on the APHINITY trial (see section 3.4), the specific benefit of pertuzumab in the lymph-node-...

[43] term: 'QALY' (char offset 22987)
    ...e size of the effect of pertuzumab on overall survival based on the APHINITY trial (see section 3.4), the specific benefit of pertuzumab in the lymph-node-positive group (see section 3.5), a modelled QALY gain of 0.4 (see section 3.8), and the estimate weighted-average discount applicable to biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab. While the committee still had concerns that the 0.4 QALY gain could be an o...

[44] term: 'discount' (char offset 23057)
    ...HINITY trial (see section 3.4), the specific benefit of pertuzumab in the lymph-node-positive group (see section 3.5), a modelled QALY gain of 0.4 (see section 3.8), and the estimate weighted-average discount applicable to biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab. While the committee still had concerns that the 0.4 QALY gain could be an overestimate, it acknowledged that pertuzumab had been shown to be an effec...

[45] term: 'QALY' (char offset 23168)
    ...n 3.5), a modelled QALY gain of 0.4 (see section 3.8), and the estimate weighted-average discount applicable to biosimilar intravenous trastuzumab. While the committee still had concerns that the 0.4 QALY gain could be an overestimate, it acknowledged that pertuzumab had been shown to be an effective treatment in both the neoadjuvant and metastatic setting. It considered that, because the updated ICER...

[46] term: 'ICER' (char offset 23368)
    ...QALY gain could be an overestimate, it acknowledged that pertuzumab had been shown to be an effective treatment in both the neoadjuvant and metastatic setting. It considered that, because the updated ICER is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained using the committee’s preferred assumptions, the new commercial offer is sufficient to offset the uncertainty about the estimated QALY gain. The committee...

[47] term: '£20,000' (char offset 23394)
    ...estimate, it acknowledged that pertuzumab had been shown to be an effective treatment in both the neoadjuvant and metastatic setting. It considered that, because the updated ICER is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained using the committee’s preferred assumptions, the new commercial offer is sufficient to offset the uncertainty about the estimated QALY gain. The committee therefore concluded that per...

[48] term: 'QALY' (char offset 23406)
    ... acknowledged that pertuzumab had been shown to be an effective treatment in both the neoadjuvant and metastatic setting. It considered that, because the updated ICER is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained using the committee’s preferred assumptions, the new commercial offer is sufficient to offset the uncertainty about the estimated QALY gain. The committee therefore concluded that pertuzumab c...

[49] term: 'QALY' (char offset 23548)
    ...because the updated ICER is comfortably below £20,000 per QALY gained using the committee’s preferred assumptions, the new commercial offer is sufficient to offset the uncertainty about the estimated QALY gain. The committee therefore concluded that pertuzumab can be recommended in the NHS as a cost-effective treatment option for the adjuvant treatment HER-2 positive early stage breast cancer in peopl...