NICE_TA862_final_appraisal.txt: 89 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: '1.2' (char offset 552)
    ...esectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments in adults. It is only recommended if the conditions in the managed access agreement for trastuzumab deruxtecan are followed. 1.2 This recommendation is not intended to affect treatment with trastuzumab deruxtecan that was started in the NHS before this guidance was published. People having treatment outside this recommendation...

[2] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 1853)
    ...an for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 1 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED ongoing. This means the cost-effectiveness estimates are highly uncertain and trastuzumab deruxtecan cannot be recommended for routine use in the NHS. Trastuzumab deruxtecan could be cost effective if further evidence shows that people live l...

[3] term: '£1,455' (char offset 2792)
    ...Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics for trastuzumab deruxtecan. Price 2.3 The list price for trastuzumab deruxtecan is £1,455 per vial containing 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (excluding VAT; BNF online accessed October 2022). 2.4 The company has a commercial arrangement (managed access agreement i...

[4] term: 'discount' (char offset 3095)
    ...online accessed October 2022). 2.4 The company has a commercial arrangement (managed access agreement including a patient access scheme). This makes trastuzumab deruxtecan available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan...

[5] term: 'discount' (char offset 3121)
    ...22). 2.4 The company has a commercial arrangement (managed access agreement including a patient access scheme). This makes trastuzumab deruxtecan available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positiv...

[6] term: 'discount' (char offset 3248)
    ...tuzumab deruxtecan available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 2 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDEN...

[7] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 3515)
    ...g HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 2 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 3 Committee discussion The evaluation committee considered evidence submitted by Daiichi Sankyo, a review of this submission by the external assessment group (EAG), and responses from stakeholders. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence. T...

[8] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 4727)
    ...tic breast cancer. Treatment aims to stop progression of the disease, extend life, and maintain or improve quality of life for as long as possible. Treatment is continued for as long as it works. The committee concluded that there is a high disease burden for people with HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer. Clinical management Clinical need 3.2 Clinical and patient experts explained that people wi...

[9] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 6552)
    ...reatments with improved outcomes are needed. Patient experts highlighted the need for new treatments with acceptable tolerability that can extend how long people live and improve quality of life. The committee concluded that that there is an unmet need for alternative anti- HER2 treatments after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments. Comparator 3.3 The clinical experts confirmed that current standard care in the NHS for pe...

[10] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 6979)
    ...h untreated HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer is trastuzumab and a taxane and that for second-line treatment current standard care is trastuzumab emtansine (see section 3.2). The committee concluded that trastuzumab emtansine is the relevant comparator for trastuzumab deruxtecan. Clinical evidence Data source 3.4 The clinical evidence was based on DESTINY-Breast03, a phase 3, open- label, random...

[11] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 8063)
    ...ial included people from different family backgrounds, including Asian and Black family backgrounds. The clinical experts confirmed that DESTINY-Breast03 is generalisable to UK clinical practice. The committee concluded that, although there were low numbers of people in the trial from England, DESTINY-Breast03 is generalisable to UK clinical practice. Subsequent treatments 3.5 In its submission, the company explaine...

[12] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 10382)
    ... the European subgroup in DESTINY-Breast03; UK clinical expert opinion; and the pooled subsequent treatment distribution from DESTINY-Breast03. It noted these scenarios had a very small impact on the cost-effectiveness estimates and so it maintained its original base case using the subsequent treatment distributions directly from DESTINY-Breast03. The EAG noted that using the scenario analyses provided by the compa...

[13] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 10909)
    ...uncertainty, and so it used the same estimates as in the company base case. The committee recognised the uncertainty, but it was satisfied that the various scenario analyses had a minor effect on the cost-effectiveness estimates. It concluded that using subsequent treatment distributions from DESTINY-Breast03 was acceptable for decision making. Clinical effectiveness 3.7 The primary endpoint of DESTINY-Breast03 is ...

[14] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 12246)
    ... treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 6 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED overall survival benefit. The committee concluded that based on the interim trial data, trastuzumab deruxtecan could be considered a promising treatment for people with HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2...

[15] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 13997)
    ...se the data is immature, it concluded the size of any overall survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan was highly uncertain, resulting in significant uncertainty in the clinical- effectiveness and cost-effectiveness estimates. Adverse events 3.9 The committee noted that trastuzumab deruxtecan is associated with side effects, including interstitial lung disease (ILD). The clinical experts confirmed that trastuzum...

[16] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 15380)
    ...the side effects more manageable. But they explained that people will accept the side effects of trastuzumab deruxtecan given the benefit it may bring in reducing both tumour volume and symptoms. The committee concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan is associated with side effects, which may impact on quality of life, but these are manageable for most people. Cost-effectiveness evidence Company’s modelling approach 3....

[17] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 15540)
    ...ng both tumour volume and symptoms. The committee concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan is associated with side effects, which may impact on quality of life, but these are manageable for most people. Cost-effectiveness evidence Company’s modelling approach 3.10 The company submitted a partitioned survival model to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine. It has ...

[18] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 15837)
    ... survival model to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine. It has 3 health states: progression-free survival, progressed disease, and death. The committee considered that the partitioned survival model is a standard approach to estimate cost effectiveness of cancer drugs and is suitable for decision making. Progression-free survival 3.11 The company fitted indepe...

[19] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 15929)
    ...rastuzumab emtansine. It has 3 health states: progression-free survival, progressed disease, and death. The committee considered that the partitioned survival model is a standard approach to estimate cost effectiveness of cancer drugs and is suitable for decision making. Progression-free survival 3.11 The company fitted independent Weibull models to Kaplan–Meier curves to estimate progression-free survival in both ...

[20] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 16709)
    ...ng HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 8 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED data only have a small effect on the cost-effectiveness estimates. The committee concluded that the company’s approach to estimating progression-free survival was appropriate. Long-term overall survival 3.12 In its submission, the company assumed a long-t...

[21] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 16743)
    ...etastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 8 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED data only have a small effect on the cost-effectiveness estimates. The committee concluded that the company’s approach to estimating progression-free survival was appropriate. Long-term overall survival 3.12 In its submission, the company assumed a long-term survival benefit for trastuzuma...

[22] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 19890)
    ...ab emtansine overall survival. The hazard ratio from DESTINY-Breast03 was then applied to this curve to inform the trastuzumab deruxtecan overall survival. This alternative method resulted in similar cost-effectiveness estimates to the company’s base case. The committee noted that only a small number of deaths occurred during the follow-up period of DESTINY-Breast03. So, the long- term extrapolation of overall surv...

[23] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 20256)
    ...03. So, the long- term extrapolation of overall survival for trastuzumab deruxtecan is highly uncertain, with no data currently available to inform which extrapolation method is most appropriate. The committee concluded that the modelling of overall survival was highly uncertain and further data collection was needed to inform overall survival with trastuzumab deruxtecan. Utility values 3.13 In its submission, the c...

[24] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 22523)
    ...tionale that people on trastuzumab deruxtecan would have a higher quality of life post-progression than people on trastuzumab emtansine because of improved response rates and disease control. But the committee considered that there is no direct trial evidence to support such a utility benefit. It concluded that there was no direct evidence of a utility benefit post-progression and that post-progression utility values...

[25] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 23561)
    ...ld be an overestimate and that if vial sharing is carried out it is unlikely there would be perfect allocation of each dose. So, it preferred to use 10% vial sharing in its base case. The NHS England Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead confirmed that vial sharing is encouraged by NHS England and that they expected vial sharing to occur regularly for trastuzumab Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treatin...

[26] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 24117)
    ...DENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED deruxtecan because of dose banding, in which individual doses are rounded up or down. They commented that they would expect vial sharing to occur in at least 50% of cases. The committee concluded that vial sharing should be assumed to occur in 50% of cases. Severity QALY weighting 3.15 In its submission, the company provided evidence that HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer...

[27] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24208)
    ...ounded up or down. They commented that they would expect vial sharing to occur in at least 50% of cases. The committee concluded that vial sharing should be assumed to occur in 50% of cases. Severity QALY weighting 3.15 In its submission, the company provided evidence that HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments is a severe condition. The severity mo...

[28] term: 'severity modifier' (char offset 24401)
    ...verity QALY weighting 3.15 In its submission, the company provided evidence that HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments is a severe condition. The severity modifier allows the committee to give more weight to health benefits in the most severe conditions. The company provided absolute and proportional quality- adjusted life year (QALY) shortfall estimates in lin...

[29] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24586)
    ...condition. The severity modifier allows the committee to give more weight to health benefits in the most severe conditions. The company provided absolute and proportional quality- adjusted life year (QALY) shortfall estimates in line with NICE’s health technology evaluations manual. Absolute QALY shortfall is the future health that is lost by people living with a condition, including quality and lengt...

[30] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24679)
    ...in the most severe conditions. The company provided absolute and proportional quality- adjusted life year (QALY) shortfall estimates in line with NICE’s health technology evaluations manual. Absolute QALY shortfall is the future health that is lost by people living with a condition, including quality and length of life, compared with the expected future health of people living without the condition, o...

[31] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24927)
    ... by people living with a condition, including quality and length of life, compared with the expected future health of people living without the condition, over their remaining lifetimes. Proportional QALY shortfall represents the proportion of future health that is lost by people living with the condition, including quality and length of life. To estimate the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls,...

[32] term: 'QALY' (char offset 25115)
    ...roportional QALY shortfall represents the proportion of future health that is lost by people living with the condition, including quality and length of life. To estimate the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, the company provided the QALYs of people without the condition over their remaining lifetime, based on the characteristics of people in the trial and the QALYs of people with the conditio...

[33] term: 'QALY' (char offset 25157)
    ...proportion of future health that is lost by people living with the condition, including quality and length of life. To estimate the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, the company provided the QALYs of people without the condition over their remaining lifetime, based on the characteristics of people in the trial and the QALYs of people with the condition on current standard care. The company es...

[34] term: 'QALY' (char offset 25286)
    ...he absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, the company provided the QALYs of people without the condition over their remaining lifetime, based on the characteristics of people in the trial and the QALYs of people with the condition on current standard care. The company estimated that people with these characteristics without HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer would be expected t...

[35] term: 'QALY' (char offset 25516)
    ...tion on current standard care. The company estimated that people with these characteristics without HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer would be expected to have remaining lifetime QALYs of 14.63. It used the Measuring and Valuing Health Study EQ-5D- 3L value set and health state profiles from 2012 and 2014 Health Survey for England data. The EAG estimated the expected remaining lif...

[36] term: 'QALY' (char offset 25726)
    ...4.63. It used the Measuring and Valuing Health Study EQ-5D- 3L value set and health state profiles from 2012 and 2014 Health Survey for England data. The EAG estimated the expected remaining lifetime QALYs to be 14.33 using Hernandez Alava et al. (2017) EQ-5D-5L to EQ- 5D-3L mapping with health state profiles from Health Survey for England data for 2017 to 2018. The company’s model estimated the expec...

[37] term: 'QALY' (char offset 25953)
    ...nandez Alava et al. (2017) EQ-5D-5L to EQ- 5D-3L mapping with health state profiles from Health Survey for England data for 2017 to 2018. The company’s model estimated the expected remaining lifetime QALYs for people with the condition who have Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 12 ...

[38] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26377)
    ...vember 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED trastuzumab emtansine after trastuzumab and a taxane, by cross-walking EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the van Hout algorithm. This resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of 12 or above. The proportional QALY shortfall was estimated at less than 0.85. The company considered that the 1.2 QALY weight should apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proporti...

[39] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26425)
    ...umab emtansine after trastuzumab and a taxane, by cross-walking EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the van Hout algorithm. This resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of 12 or above. The proportional QALY shortfall was estimated at less than 0.85. The company considered that the 1.2 QALY weight should apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls are confidential so cannot ...

[40] term: '1.2' (char offset 26505)
    ...D-3L using the van Hout algorithm. This resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of 12 or above. The proportional QALY shortfall was estimated at less than 0.85. The company considered that the 1.2 QALY weight should apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls are confidential so cannot be reported here). The EAG preferred to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using t...

[41] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26509)
    ... using the van Hout algorithm. This resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of 12 or above. The proportional QALY shortfall was estimated at less than 0.85. The company considered that the 1.2 QALY weight should apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls are confidential so cannot be reported here). The EAG preferred to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the He...

[42] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26545)
    ...resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of 12 or above. The proportional QALY shortfall was estimated at less than 0.85. The company considered that the 1.2 QALY weight should apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls are confidential so cannot be reported here). The EAG preferred to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the Hernandez Alava et al. (2017) algorith...

[43] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26586)
    ...tfall of 12 or above. The proportional QALY shortfall was estimated at less than 0.85. The company considered that the 1.2 QALY weight should apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls are confidential so cannot be reported here). The EAG preferred to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the Hernandez Alava et al. (2017) algorithm which resulted in values for absolute Q...

[44] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26789)
    ...Y shortfalls are confidential so cannot be reported here). The EAG preferred to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the Hernandez Alava et al. (2017) algorithm which resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of less than 12 and a proportional QALY shortfall of less than 0.85. So, the EAG base case suggested that a severity QALY weighting does not apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and pro...

[45] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26839)
    ...d here). The EAG preferred to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ-5D-3L using the Hernandez Alava et al. (2017) algorithm which resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of less than 12 and a proportional QALY shortfall of less than 0.85. So, the EAG base case suggested that a severity QALY weighting does not apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, are confidential so can...

[46] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26921)
    ...Alava et al. (2017) algorithm which resulted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of less than 12 and a proportional QALY shortfall of less than 0.85. So, the EAG base case suggested that a severity QALY weighting does not apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, are confidential so cannot be reported here). The committee discussed the methods used by the company and...

[47] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26962)
    ...ted in values for absolute QALY shortfall of less than 12 and a proportional QALY shortfall of less than 0.85. So, the EAG base case suggested that a severity QALY weighting does not apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, are confidential so cannot be reported here). The committee discussed the methods used by the company and the EAG to estimate the remaining lifeti...

[48] term: 'QALY' (char offset 27003)
    ... of less than 12 and a proportional QALY shortfall of less than 0.85. So, the EAG base case suggested that a severity QALY weighting does not apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, are confidential so cannot be reported here). The committee discussed the methods used by the company and the EAG to estimate the remaining lifetime QALYs for the general population and f...

[49] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 27070)
    ...5. So, the EAG base case suggested that a severity QALY weighting does not apply (the exact QALYs, and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, are confidential so cannot be reported here). The committee discussed the methods used by the company and the EAG to estimate the remaining lifetime QALYs for the general population and for people living with the condition. It noted NICE’s position statement on the use...

[50] term: 'QALY' (char offset 27169)
    ...and the absolute and proportional QALY shortfalls, are confidential so cannot be reported here). The committee discussed the methods used by the company and the EAG to estimate the remaining lifetime QALYs for the general population and for people living with the condition. It noted NICE’s position statement on the use of the EQ-5D-5L value set and was also aware that NICE’s health technology evaluati...

[51] term: 'QALY' (char offset 27595)
    ...eference for Hernandez Alava et al. (2017), as used by the ERG to cross-walk EQ-5D-5L to EQ- 5D-3L. It considered there was high uncertainty around the methods used to estimate the remaining lifetime QALYs for the general population and for people living with the condition. The committee noted that the modifier for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost...

[52] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 27795)
    ...QALYs for the general population and for people living with the condition. The committee noted that the modifier for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease se...

[53] term: '£30,000' (char offset 27830)
    ...d for people living with the condition. The committee noted that the modifier for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly ...

[54] term: 'QALY' (char offset 27842)
    ... living with the condition. The committee noted that the modifier for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but ...

[55] term: 'QALY' (char offset 27863)
    ...ition. The committee noted that the modifier for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met...

[56] term: '1.2' (char offset 27904)
    ...ier for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met in some scenarios. Cost-effectiveness e...

[57] term: 'QALY' (char offset 27908)
    ...for disease severity was not convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met in some scenarios. Cost-effectiveness estima...

[58] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 27937)
    ...convincingly met but recognised that there were plausible cost-effectiveness estimates below £30,000 per QALY gained when the QALY weight was not applied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met in some scenarios. Cost-effectiveness estimates Company and EAG cost-effectiveness estim...

[59] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 28087)
    ...ied and when the 1.2 QALY weight was applied. The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met in some scenarios. Cost-effectiveness estimates Company and EAG cost-effectiveness estimates 3.16 Because of confidential discounts for trastuzumab deruxtecan, trastuzumab emtansine and subsequent treatments, the cost- Final draft guidan...

[60] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 28132)
    ... The committee concluded that it is uncertain whether the modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met in some scenarios. Cost-effectiveness estimates Company and EAG cost-effectiveness estimates 3.16 Because of confidential discounts for trastuzumab deruxtecan, trastuzumab emtansine and subsequent treatments, the cost- Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2...

[61] term: 'discount' (char offset 28190)
    ...modifier for disease severity was convincingly met, but recognised it was met in some scenarios. Cost-effectiveness estimates Company and EAG cost-effectiveness estimates 3.16 Because of confidential discounts for trastuzumab deruxtecan, trastuzumab emtansine and subsequent treatments, the cost- Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast canc...

[62] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 29224)
    ...vival with trastuzumab deruxtecan (see section 3.8 and section 3.11). Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the company’s preferred overall survival extrapolation resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £...

[63] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29250)
    ...uxtecan (see section 3.8 and section 3.11). Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the company’s preferred overall survival extrapolation resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per Q...

[64] term: '£30,000' (char offset 29262)
    ... section 3.8 and section 3.11). Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the company’s preferred overall survival extrapolation resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per QALY gained. The...

[65] term: 'QALY' (char offset 29274)
    ... and section 3.11). Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the company’s preferred overall survival extrapolation resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per QALY gained. The committe...

[66] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29429)
    ...effectiveness ratio (ICER) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee considered these scenarios were plausible but uncertain. Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolati...

[67] term: '£30,000' (char offset 29441)
    ...s ratio (ICER) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee considered these scenarios were plausible but uncertain. Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolation, which assum...

[68] term: 'QALY' (char offset 29453)
    ...R) above £30,000 per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee considered these scenarios were plausible but uncertain. Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolation, which assumed no lon...

[69] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 29470)
    ...per QALY gained. But the committee noted that using the committee’s preferred assumptions with different methods of extrapolating overall survival resulted in ICERs below £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee considered these scenarios were plausible but uncertain. Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolation, which assumed no long-term survival benefit for trast...

[70] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29724)
    ...t uncertain. Using the committee’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolation, which assumed no long-term survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan, resulted in an ICER that was above £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty of the long-term overall survival benefit of trastuzumab deru...

[71] term: '£30,000' (char offset 29744)
    ...he committee’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolation, which assumed no long-term survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan, resulted in an ICER that was above £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty of the long-term overall survival benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with tr...

[72] term: 'QALY' (char offset 29756)
    ...’s preferred assumptions and the EAG’s preferred overall survival extrapolation, which assumed no long-term survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan, resulted in an ICER that was above £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty of the long-term overall survival benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab...

[73] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29800)
    ...rred overall survival extrapolation, which assumed no long-term survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan, resulted in an ICER that was above £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty of the long-term overall survival benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine. This is mainly related to the im...

[74] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 30127)
    ...uxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine. This is mainly related to the immaturity of the overall survival data. The committee recognised that the evidence base was immature and the most plausible cost-effectiveness estimates for trastuzumab deruxtecan are highly uncertain. It concluded that with the available data, the most plausible ICER had not been proven to be within the range usually considered a cost-effe...

[75] term: 'ICER' (char offset 30267)
    ... that the evidence base was immature and the most plausible cost-effectiveness estimates for trastuzumab deruxtecan are highly uncertain. It concluded that with the available data, the most plausible ICER had not been proven to be within the range usually considered a cost-effective use of resources, even when the severity modifier was applied. So, it concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be...

[76] term: 'severity modifier' (char offset 30383)
    ...are highly uncertain. It concluded that with the available data, the most plausible ICER had not been proven to be within the range usually considered a cost-effective use of resources, even when the severity modifier was applied. So, it concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine commissioning. Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or ...

[77] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 31060)
    ...routine use, the committee then considered if it could be recommended with managed access for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments. The committee considered whether a recommendation with managed access could be made, and discussed that: • There is plausible potential to satisfy the criteria for routine use: - the committee considered there are plausible ...

[78] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 31239)
    ...HER2 treatments. The committee considered whether a recommendation with managed access could be made, and discussed that: • There is plausible potential to satisfy the criteria for routine use: - the committee considered there are plausible ICERs below £30,000 per QALY both when the modifier for disease severity is applied and when it is not applied - the company’s model is structurally robust for decision making (se...

[79] term: 'ICER' (char offset 31280)
    ... whether a recommendation with managed access could be made, and discussed that: • There is plausible potential to satisfy the criteria for routine use: - the committee considered there are plausible ICERs below £30,000 per QALY both when the modifier for disease severity is applied and when it is not applied - the company’s model is structurally robust for decision making (see section 3.10). • The ke...

[80] term: '£30,000' (char offset 31292)
    ...ecommendation with managed access could be made, and discussed that: • There is plausible potential to satisfy the criteria for routine use: - the committee considered there are plausible ICERs below £30,000 per QALY both when the modifier for disease severity is applied and when it is not applied - the company’s model is structurally robust for decision making (see section 3.10). • The key uncertainties...

[81] term: 'QALY' (char offset 31304)
    ...n with managed access could be made, and discussed that: • There is plausible potential to satisfy the criteria for routine use: - the committee considered there are plausible ICERs below £30,000 per QALY both when the modifier for disease severity is applied and when it is not applied - the company’s model is structurally robust for decision making (see section 3.10). • The key uncertainties relate t...

[82] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 31557)
    ...pplied and when it is not applied - the company’s model is structurally robust for decision making (see section 3.10). • The key uncertainties relate to overall survival, which is a key driver of the cost-effectiveness results. • New evidence could address the clinical uncertainty: - data from DESTINY-Breast03 is immature because only a small percentage of those recruited had had an event by the May 2021 data cut-o...

[83] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 32352)
    ...rest in trastuzumab deruxtecan being considered for funding through managed access. The managed access feasibility assessment noted that trastuzumab deruxtecan would likely be eligible for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund. Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 15 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDE...

[84] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 32595)
    ...rastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 15 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED The committee considered that trastuzumab deruxtecan met the criteria to be considered for a recommendation with managed access. It recommended trastuzumab deruxtecan for use in managed access as an option for people with HE...

[85] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 33450)
    ... innovative. They explained that it would be a step-change in improving clinical outcomes and managing HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments. The committee considered whether trastuzumab deruxtecan was innovative. It did not identify additional benefits of trastuzumab deruxtecan not captured in the economic modelling. So, the committee concluded that all additiona...

[86] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 33632)
    ...2 treatments. The committee considered whether trastuzumab deruxtecan was innovative. It did not identify additional benefits of trastuzumab deruxtecan not captured in the economic modelling. So, the committee concluded that all additional benefits of trastuzumab deruxtecan had already been taken into account. 4 Implementation 4.1 When NICE recommends a treatment as an option for use with managed access, NHS England...

[87] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 34372)
    ...ld be available for use, in line with NICE's recommendations and the criteria in the managed access agreement. 4.2 Chapter 2 of Appraisal and funding of cancer drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, Final draft guidance – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 16 of 18 Issue ...

[88] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 34732)
    ...after 1 or more anti-HER2 treatments Page 16 of 18 Issue date: November 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer Drugs Fund budget) from the point of marketing authorisation, or from release of positive draft guidance, whichever is later. Drugs that ar...

[89] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 34803)
    ... 2022 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer Drugs Fund budget) from the point of marketing authorisation, or from release of positive draft guidance, whichever is later. Drugs that are recommended for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund will be funded in line w...