NICE_TA704_final appraisal.txt: 63 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: '1.2' (char offset 544)
    ...r treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer in adults after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies. It is recommended only if the conditions in the managed access agreement are followed. 1.2 This recommendation is not intended to affect treatment with trastuzumab deruxtecan that was started in the NHS before this guidance was published. People having treatment outside this recommendation...

[2] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 2154)
    ...ere are differences between trials included in the indirect comparisons, and the final data from the trial of trastuzumab deruxtecan on its own is not available yet. Because of this, the estimates of cost effectiveness are very uncertain and trastuzumab deruxtecan cannot be recommended for routine use in the NHS. Trastuzumab deruxtecan could be cost effective if further data shows that people live longer with treat...

[3] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 2686)
    ...y. Data from the trials of trastuzumab deruxtecan and from NHS practice would help address the uncertainty about clinical effectiveness. Trastuzumab deruxtecan is therefore recommended for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund. 2 Information about trastuzumab deruxtecan Marketing authorisation indication 2.1 Trastuzumab deruxtecan (Enhertu, Daiichi-Sankyo) has a marketing authorisation as ‘monotherapy for the treatment of ...

[4] term: '£1,455' (char offset 3197)
    ...wo or more prior anti-HER2-based regimens’. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics. Price 2.3 The company’s list price is £1,455 per vial containing 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (company’s submission). The average cost of a course of treatment at list price is £117,857.55. The company has a commercia...

[5] term: '£117,857' (char offset 3363)
    ...e 2.3 The company’s list price is £1,455 per vial containing 100 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (company’s submission). The average cost of a course of treatment at list price is £117,857.55. The company has a commercial arrangement. This makes trastuzumab deruxtecan available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for tr...

[6] term: 'discount' (char offset 3480)
    ...(company’s submission). The average cost of a course of treatment at list price is £117,857.55. The company has a commercial arrangement. This makes trastuzumab deruxtecan available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 2 of 18 Issue ...

[7] term: 'discount' (char offset 3506)
    ...e average cost of a course of treatment at list price is £117,857.55. The company has a commercial arrangement. This makes trastuzumab deruxtecan available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 2 of 18 Issue date: April 2021 © NICE [2...

[8] term: 'discount' (char offset 3917)
    ...]. All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by Daiichi-Sankyo, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG) and responses from stakeholders. Ahead ...

[9] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 3964)
    ...ghts. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. 3 Committee discussion The appraisal committee considered evidence submitted by Daiichi-Sankyo, a review of this submission by the evidence review group (ERG) and responses from stakeholders. Ahead of technical engagement, the company submitted new data bas...

[10] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 5460)
    ...tic breast cancer. Treatment aims to stop progression of the disease, extend life, and maintain or improve quality of life for as long as possible. Treatment is continued for as long as it works. The committee concluded that there is a high disease burden for people with HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable o...

[11] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 7775)
    ... people want to avoid having chemotherapies for as long as possible. Patient experts highlighted the need for treatments that can extend survival with acceptable tolerability and quality of life. The committee concluded that that there is an unmet need for anti-HER2 treatment after second-line treatment. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast ca...

[12] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 10085)
    ... next line of treatment. Therefore, trastuzumab deruxtecan efficacy could be higher in the NHS than in the trial. This is supported by a subgroup analysis from DESTINY-Breast01 (see section 3.5). The committee concluded that DESTINY-Breast01 is broadly generalisable to clinical practice in the UK. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer af...

[13] term: '1.7' (char offset 12080)
    ...this analysis was based on a small number of patients (17 people in the group who had only 2 previous lines) so it is highly uncertain. Clinical experts also explained that in DESTINY-Breast01, only 21.7% of people had disease response to previous treatment with trastuzumab emtansine. This suggests that a high response rate to trastuzumab deruxtecan is unlikely to be because of patient selection. The...

[14] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 16465)
    ...tioned that more meaningful comparisons could be done using control arms from more recent trials for anti-HER2 therapies, even though they do not represent current NHS practice (see section 3.5). The committee concluded that the company’s MAIC has limitations, and the results are uncertain. It also concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan is likely to improve clinical outcomes, including overall survival, compared with...

[15] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 18071)
    ...sue date: April 2021 © NICE [2021]. All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED expected to be tolerated less if it is used third line in NHS clinical practice. The committee concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan is associated with side effects, but its safety profile was acceptable. Cost-effectiveness evidence The company’s economic model is suitable for decision making 3.8 The co...

[16] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 18191)
    ...ted to be tolerated less if it is used third line in NHS clinical practice. The committee concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan is associated with side effects, but its safety profile was acceptable. Cost-effectiveness evidence The company’s economic model is suitable for decision making 3.8 The company submitted a partitioned survival model to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with...

[17] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 18564)
    ...eness of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with eribulin, capecitabine and vinorelbine. It had 4 health states: progression-free on treatment, progression-free off treatment, progressed, and death. The committee considered that the partitioned survival model is a standard approach to estimate the cost effectiveness of cancer drugs and is suitable for decision making. Company’s modelling of progression-free survival and...

[18] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 18660)
    ...ealth states: progression-free on treatment, progression-free off treatment, progressed, and death. The committee considered that the partitioned survival model is a standard approach to estimate the cost effectiveness of cancer drugs and is suitable for decision making. Company’s modelling of progression-free survival and time to stopping treatment for comparators is uncertain 3.9 In the model, progression-free su...

[19] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 19361)
    ...stics could not be adjusted for (see section 3.6). Time to stopping treatment was not available in the studies of comparators, so the company assumed it was the same as progression-free survival. The committee concluded that the modelling of progression-free survival and time to stopping treatment for comparators was uncertain. This was because of the uncertainty in the indirect treatment comparison and using proxy ...

[20] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 24368)
    ...ed alternative extrapolation curves for TH3RESA overall survival and, at the same time, varied the hazard ratio for overall survival with trastuzumab deruxtecan relative to trastuzumab emtansine. The committee concluded that the modelling of overall survival was highly uncertain and further data collection was Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic bre...

[21] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 26240)
    ...s unclear. Therefore, it was impossible to assess whether the relative overall survival with trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with its comparators was overestimated or underestimated in the model. The committee concluded that the relative overall survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with its comparators in the model was uncertain, because it was based on naive comparisons. It also concluded that evide...

[22] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 27726)
    ...rmed that in metastatic breast cancer, there was a clear link between health-related quality of life and objective response rate, progression-free survival, and treatment-emergent adverse events. The committee concluded that the company’s approach to utility values is broadly appropriate, but there may be some uncertainty related to limitations of the indirect treatment comparison. End of life Trastuzumab deruxtecan...

[23] term: 'End of life' (char offset 27911)
    ...se events. The committee concluded that the company’s approach to utility values is broadly appropriate, but there may be some uncertainty related to limitations of the indirect treatment comparison. End of life Trastuzumab deruxtecan meets the end of life criteria 3.13 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s guide to the methods o...

[24] term: 'end of life' (char offset 27956)
    ...ompany’s approach to utility values is broadly appropriate, but there may be some uncertainty related to limitations of the indirect treatment comparison. End of life Trastuzumab deruxtecan meets the end of life criteria 3.13 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s guide to the methods of technology appraisal. Clinical experts expl...

[25] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 27986)
    ...alues is broadly appropriate, but there may be some uncertainty related to limitations of the indirect treatment comparison. End of life Trastuzumab deruxtecan meets the end of life criteria 3.13 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s guide to the methods of technology appraisal. Clinical experts explained that life expectancy after progre...

[26] term: 'end of life' (char offset 28610)
    ...of at least 3 months. The ERG agreed that, based on the latest data cut from June 2020, an improvement in overall survival of at least 3 months was plausible. The clinical experts also noted that the end of life criteria were accepted in NICE’s technology appraisal guidance on eribulin in third-line treatment and trastuzumab emtansine in second-line treatment. The committee agreed that although the size of t...

[27] term: 'end of life' (char offset 29093)
    ...tain, trastuzumab deruxtecan was likely to give an extension to life of at least 3 months. It concluded that, despite the uncertainty in the clinical evidence, trastuzumab deruxtecan likely meets the end of life criteria. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 13 of 18 Issue date: April 202...

[28] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 29400)
    ...able or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 13 of 18 Issue date: April 2021 © NICE [2021]. All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Cost-effectiveness estimates Trastuzumab deruxtecan is not recommended for routine use in the NHS 3.14 The committee recalled the high uncertainty in how the relative efficacy of trastuzumab deruxtecan was modelled (se...

[29] term: 'not recommended' (char offset 29455)
    ...ER2 therapies Page 13 of 18 Issue date: April 2021 © NICE [2021]. All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Cost-effectiveness estimates Trastuzumab deruxtecan is not recommended for routine use in the NHS 3.14 The committee recalled the high uncertainty in how the relative efficacy of trastuzumab deruxtecan was modelled (see sections 3.9 to 3.12). The ERG did not identify an...

[30] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 29834)
    ...o 3.12). The ERG did not identify any alternative approach to allow a more robust analysis, because of evidence limitations. The company’s base-case fully incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee conside...

[31] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29860)
    ...dentify any alternative approach to allow a more robust analysis, because of evidence limitations. The company’s base-case fully incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee considered a range ...

[32] term: '£47,230' (char offset 29869)
    ...ny alternative approach to allow a more robust analysis, because of evidence limitations. The company’s base-case fully incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee considered a range of scenario ...

[33] term: 'QALY' (char offset 29909)
    ...robust analysis, because of evidence limitations. The company’s base-case fully incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee considered a range of scenario analyses provided by the ERG. In thes...

[34] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 29952)
    ...tions. The company’s base-case fully incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee considered a range of scenario analyses provided by the ERG. In these, the hazard ratio for overall survival for trastuzumab de...

[35] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29978)
    ...case fully incremental analysis produced an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee considered a range of scenario analyses provided by the ERG. In these, the hazard ratio for overall survival for trastuzumab deruxtecan c...

[36] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 30035)
    ...ost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £47,230 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained relative to capecitabine. The committee considered this ICER was plausible, but highly uncertain. Therefore, the committee considered a range of scenario analyses provided by the ERG. In these, the hazard ratio for overall survival for trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine and overall survival extrapolation fro...

[37] term: 'ICER' (char offset 30330)
    ...io for overall survival for trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine and overall survival extrapolation from TH3RESA trial were varied at the same time (see section 3.10). This gave ICERs of up to £78,142 per QALY gained relative to capecitabine. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty in the relative clinical benefit of trast...

[38] term: '£78,142' (char offset 30345)
    ...survival for trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine and overall survival extrapolation from TH3RESA trial were varied at the same time (see section 3.10). This gave ICERs of up to £78,142 per QALY gained relative to capecitabine. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty in the relative clinical benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan ...

[39] term: 'QALY' (char offset 30357)
    ... trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with trastuzumab emtansine and overall survival extrapolation from TH3RESA trial were varied at the same time (see section 3.10). This gave ICERs of up to £78,142 per QALY gained relative to capecitabine. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty in the relative clinical benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared ...

[40] term: 'ICER' (char offset 30426)
    ...ll survival extrapolation from TH3RESA trial were varied at the same time (see section 3.10). This gave ICERs of up to £78,142 per QALY gained relative to capecitabine. The committee agreed that this ICER is not implausible, because of the high degree of uncertainty in the relative clinical benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with its comparators. This is mainly related to the immaturity of the...

[41] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 30695)
    ... the relative clinical benefit of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with its comparators. This is mainly related to the immaturity of the overall survival data and the lack of comparative evidence. The committee concluded that the evidence base was immature and that the ICER could be higher than what NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources, even considering end of life criteria. Therefore, it conclu...

[42] term: 'ICER' (char offset 30764)
    ...h its comparators. This is mainly related to the immaturity of the overall survival data and the lack of comparative evidence. The committee concluded that the evidence base was immature and that the ICER could be higher than what NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources, even considering end of life criteria. Therefore, it concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommend...

[43] term: 'end of life' (char offset 30872)
    ...parative evidence. The committee concluded that the evidence base was immature and that the ICER could be higher than what NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources, even considering end of life criteria. Therefore, it concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine commissioning. Cancer Drugs Fund Trastuzumab deruxtecan meets the criteria for inclusion in the Canc...

[44] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 30998)
    ...E normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources, even considering end of life criteria. Therefore, it concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine commissioning. Cancer Drugs Fund Trastuzumab deruxtecan meets the criteria for inclusion in the Cancer Drugs Fund 3.15 Having concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine use, the committee considered i...

[45] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 31193)
    ...ing. Cancer Drugs Fund Trastuzumab deruxtecan meets the criteria for inclusion in the Cancer Drugs Fund 3.15 Having concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine use, the committee considered if it could be recommended within the Cancer Drugs Fund. The committee discussed Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer ...

[46] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 31252)
    ...teria for inclusion in the Cancer Drugs Fund 3.15 Having concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine use, the committee considered if it could be recommended within the Cancer Drugs Fund. The committee discussed Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 14 of 18 Issue ...

[47] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 31275)
    ...the Cancer Drugs Fund 3.15 Having concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for routine use, the committee considered if it could be recommended within the Cancer Drugs Fund. The committee discussed Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 14 of 18 Issue date: April 2021 © NICE [...

[48] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 31605)
    ... cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies Page 14 of 18 Issue date: April 2021 © NICE [2021]. All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED the arrangements for the Cancer Drugs Fund agreed by NICE and NHS England in 2016, noting NICE’s Cancer Drugs Fund methods guide (addendum). It noted that: • The company expressed an interest in trastuzumab deruxtecan being considered for fun...

[49] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 31677)
    ...ril 2021 © NICE [2021]. All rights reserved. Subject to Notice of rights. CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED the arrangements for the Cancer Drugs Fund agreed by NICE and NHS England in 2016, noting NICE’s Cancer Drugs Fund methods guide (addendum). It noted that: • The company expressed an interest in trastuzumab deruxtecan being considered for funding through the Cancer Drugs Fund. • The company model is structurally ...

[50] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 31839)
    ...nd NHS England in 2016, noting NICE’s Cancer Drugs Fund methods guide (addendum). It noted that: • The company expressed an interest in trastuzumab deruxtecan being considered for funding through the Cancer Drugs Fund. • The company model is structurally robust for decision making (see section 3.8). • Overall survival is a key driver of the cost-effectiveness results and the key source of uncertainty. • Data from ...

[51] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 31982)
    ...umab deruxtecan being considered for funding through the Cancer Drugs Fund. • The company model is structurally robust for decision making (see section 3.8). • Overall survival is a key driver of the cost-effectiveness results and the key source of uncertainty. • Data from DESTINY-Breast01 is immature. This single-arm trial is still ongoing and further data could help reduce uncertainties around long- term progress...

[52] term: 'end of life' (char offset 32948)
    ...ovide meaningful real-world data about time on treatment and overall survival for trastuzumab deruxtecan in the NHS. • Trastuzumab deruxtecan has plausible potential to be cost effective, considering end of life criteria (see sections 3.13 and 3.14) and a confidential patient access scheme (see section 2.4). The committee was satisfied that trastuzumab deruxtecan met the criteria for inclusion in the Cancer ...

[53] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 33152)
    ...of life criteria (see sections 3.13 and 3.14) and a confidential patient access scheme (see section 2.4). The committee was satisfied that trastuzumab deruxtecan met the criteria for inclusion in the Cancer Drugs Fund. Therefore, it recommended trastuzumab deruxtecan for use within the Cancer Drugs Fund for people with HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer, after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies, if ...

[54] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 33239)
    ...(see section 2.4). The committee was satisfied that trastuzumab deruxtecan met the criteria for inclusion in the Cancer Drugs Fund. Therefore, it recommended trastuzumab deruxtecan for use within the Cancer Drugs Fund for people with HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer, after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies, if the conditions in the managed access agreement are followed. When the guidance is next ...

[55] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 34256)
    ...e innovative. They explained that it would be a step- change in improving clinical outcomes and managing HER2-postive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or more anti-HER2 therapies. The committee concluded that trastuzumab deruxtecan had the potential to give significant benefits for patients, but these benefits were adequately captured in the model. 4 Implementation 4.1 When NICE recommends a treatmen...

[56] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 34509)
    ...he potential to give significant benefits for patients, but these benefits were adequately captured in the model. 4 Implementation 4.1 When NICE recommends a treatment as an option for use within the Cancer Drugs Fund, NHS England will make it available according to the conditions in the managed access agreement. This means that, if a patient has HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic breast cancer after 2 or mo...

[57] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 35108)
    ...endations and the Cancer Drugs Fund criteria in the managed access agreement. Further information can be found in NHS England's Appraisal and funding of cancer drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry. 4.2 Chapter 2 of Appraisal and funding of cancer drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers an...

[58] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 35267)
    ... drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry. 4.2 Chapter 2 of Appraisal and funding of cancer drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer...

[59] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 35407)
    ...d funding of cancer drugs from July 2016 (including the new Cancer Drugs Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer Drugs Fund budget) from the point of marketing authorisation, or from release of positive draft guidance, Final appraisal document – Trastu...

[60] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 35478)
    ...s Fund) – A new deal for patients, taxpayers and industry states that for those drugs with a draft recommendation for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund, interim funding will be available (from the overall Cancer Drugs Fund budget) from the point of marketing authorisation, or from release of positive draft guidance, Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab deruxtecan for treating HER2-positive unresectable or metastatic ...

[61] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 36102)
    ...that are recommended for use in the Cancer Drugs Fund will be funded in line with the terms of their managed access agreement, after the period of interim funding. The NHS England and NHS Improvement Cancer Drugs Fund list provides up-to-date information on all cancer treatments recommended by NICE since 2016. This includes whether they have received a marketing authorisation and been launched in the UK. 4.3 The W...

[62] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 37072)
    ...ver is the later. 5 Review of guidance 5.1 The data collection period is expected to end when sufficient data have been collected to address the committee’s uncertainties. The process for exiting the Cancer Drugs Fund will begin at this point and the review of the NICE guidance will start. 5.2 As part of the managed access agreement, the technology will continue to be available through the Cancer Drugs Fund after ...

[63] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 37265)
    ...ng the Cancer Drugs Fund will begin at this point and the review of the NICE guidance will start. 5.2 As part of the managed access agreement, the technology will continue to be available through the Cancer Drugs Fund after the data collection period has ended and while the guidance is being reviewed. This assumes that the data collection period ends as planned and the review of guidance follows the standard timel...