TA424_final_appraisal.txt: 88 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: 'discount' (char offset 577)
    ...itive breast cancer; that is, in patients with HER2-positive, locally advanced, inflammatory or early- stage breast cancer at high risk of recurrence, only if the company provides pertuzumab with the discount agreed in the patient access scheme. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 1 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast ca...

[2] term: '£2,395' (char offset 2064)
    ...commended dose and The recommended dosage of pertuzumab is an initial schedule loading dose of 840 mg, followed by a maintenance dose of 420 mg every 3 weeks for 3 to 6 cycles. Price Pertuzumab costs £2,395 per 420 mg vial (excluding VAT). The company has agreed a patient access scheme with the Department of Health. This scheme provides a simple discount to the list price of pertuzumab, with the discoun...

[3] term: 'discount' (char offset 2212)
    ...y 3 weeks for 3 to 6 cycles. Price Pertuzumab costs £2,395 per 420 mg vial (excluding VAT). The company has agreed a patient access scheme with the Department of Health. This scheme provides a simple discount to the list price of pertuzumab, with the discount applied at the point of purchase or invoice. The level of the discount is commercial in confidence. The Department of Health considered that this pa...

[4] term: 'discount' (char offset 2263)
    ... £2,395 per 420 mg vial (excluding VAT). The company has agreed a patient access scheme with the Department of Health. This scheme provides a simple discount to the list price of pertuzumab, with the discount applied at the point of purchase or invoice. The level of the discount is commercial in confidence. The Department of Health considered that this patient access scheme does not constitute an excessiv...

[5] term: 'discount' (char offset 2334)
    ...nt access scheme with the Department of Health. This scheme provides a simple discount to the list price of pertuzumab, with the discount applied at the point of purchase or invoice. The level of the discount is commercial in confidence. The Department of Health considered that this patient access scheme does not constitute an excessive administrative burden on the NHS. 3 Evidence The appraisal committee ...

[6] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 3037)
    ...adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 4 Committee discussion The appraisal committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of pertuzumab, having considered evidence on the nature of HER2-positive breast cancer and the value placed on the benefits of pertuzumab by people with the condition, those who represent them, and c...

[7] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 8387)
    ...d be quickly identified. In most patients tumour shrinkage (albeit not necessarily total pathological response) is seen, and this can occur quite rapidly during a course of neoadjuvant treatment. The committee concluded that in current NHS practice there is a trend towards offering more neoadjuvant therapy in HER2-positive breast cancer, and that most neoadjuvant regimens in this patient group include trastuzumab. C...

[8] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 8823)
    ...ness Strength of clinical trial evidence 4.3 The company submitted evidence from 2 phase II randomised controlled trials relevant to the population in the scope, NeoSphere and TRYPHAENA. However, the committee considered both of these to have substantial limitations for the purposes of providing comparative effectiveness data for pertuzumab. Both trials were at an early stage of research (phase II) and lacked longer-...

[9] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 10313)
    ...ocetaxel (both given every 3 weeks for 4 cycles; see section 4.4). TRYPHAENA included pathological complete response as a secondary outcome, and therefore provided additional supportive evidence. The committee concluded that the clinical trial evidence for pertuzumab in the neoadjuvant setting was limited, but in the absence of stronger evidence, results from NeoSphere could be used as the basis of its decision-maki...

[10] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 12734)
    ... the reliability of pathological complete response as a surrogate for longer-term survival outcomes for patients (section 4.5), and it noted that the trial was not powered for long-term outcomes. The committee concluded that there was evidence that pertuzumab could improve rates of pathological complete response when added to trastuzumab and docetaxel, but that there was no reliable trial evidence of event-free or o...

[11] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 13046)
    ...e when added to trastuzumab and docetaxel, but that there was no reliable trial evidence of event-free or overall survival benefit. Association of pathological complete response with survival 4.5 The committee discussed the value of pathological complete response as a clinically meaningful indicator of longer-term event-free and overall survival. It was aware that a number of studies have been done to investigate th...

[12] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 17212)
    ...ition, the low patient numbers in the trial resulted in one of the rare subtypes, inflammatory breast cancer, having only 7 patients in the comparator arm and 10 patients in the intervention arm. The committee considered that there were likely to have been very few UK patients in the trial; only 214 patients had either the intervention or comparator as stated in the scope, across 59 centres, and of these only 2 centr...

[13] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 17852)
    ...isal consultation document, the company had stated that clinical expert opinion supported the generalisability of the clinical trial evidence, although it did not provide any supporting evidence. The committee concluded that although there was some uncertainty about the generalisability of the NeoSphere trial to current NHS practice, it was appropriate for decision-making. Adverse events associate with pertuzumab 4....

[14] term: 'Cost effectiveness' (char offset 19002)
    ... Health and Care Excellence Page 9 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Cost effectiveness Health economic model: structure and parameter assumptions 4.8 Although the locoregional recurrence health state omitted surgery (which would be the best option for patients at this stage of the trea...

[15] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 19240)
    ...el: structure and parameter assumptions 4.8 Although the locoregional recurrence health state omitted surgery (which would be the best option for patients at this stage of the treatment pathway), the committee considered the general structure of the model and sequencing of health states to be plausible. However, it had concerns about the parameter assumptions used in the model for effectiveness (section 4.9) and cost...

[16] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 19781)
    ...ottish Medicines Consortium (SMC) for consideration of pertuzumab for the same indication. In the SMC submission, the company had derived substantially different incremental costs, utility values and cost-effectiveness results to those submitted to NICE, but had not provided a full and clear explanation of the reasons for the differences. In response to the appraisal consultation document, the company provided a de...

[17] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 20155)
    ...ultation document, the company provided a detailed explanation which more clearly demonstrated that the main difference between the 2 submissions was the incorporation of costs of drugs funded by the Cancer Drugs Fund (CDF), which were available in England but not Scotland. Although the committee regretted that this uncertainty had not been resolved earlier, it welcomed this additional transparency from the compan...

[18] term: 'CDF' (char offset 20174)
    ...the company provided a detailed explanation which more clearly demonstrated that the main difference between the 2 submissions was the incorporation of costs of drugs funded by the Cancer Drugs Fund (CDF), which were available in England but not Scotland. Although the committee regretted that this uncertainty had not been resolved earlier, it welcomed this additional transparency from the company, wh...

[19] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 20601)
    ...he committee at its second meeting that none of the variation was a cause for concern. The committee was satisfied it now understood the reasons for the variation between the NICE and SMC incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and concluded that the structure of the model was generally appropriate for decision-making, although it was still subject to uncertainty because of some parameter assumptions. Health...

[20] term: 'ICER' (char offset 20628)
    ...meeting that none of the variation was a cause for concern. The committee was satisfied it now understood the reasons for the variation between the NICE and SMC incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and concluded that the structure of the model was generally appropriate for decision-making, although it was still subject to uncertainty because of some parameter assumptions. Health economic mod...

[21] term: 'threshold' (char offset 22658)
    ...sponse), whereas in clinical practice, the outcome may be more nuanced; it is possible that the proportion of individual patient response may affect long-term outcomes without necessarily meeting the threshold to be classified as a response in the trial. The committee noted that the company had attempted to explore uncertainty in this area with a scenario analysis using the less robust survival data from N...

[22] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 22896)
    ...se in the trial. The committee noted that the company had attempted to explore uncertainty in this area with a scenario analysis using the less robust survival data from NeoSphere, which improved the cost-effectiveness results for pertuzumab. Overall, in the absence of an alternative source of robust effectiveness data and taking into account that it considered that pathological complete response was more likely th...

[23] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 23183)
    ...urce of robust effectiveness data and taking into account that it considered that pathological complete response was more likely than not to be associated with longer-term outcomes (section 4.5), the committee concluded that the company’s approach to model clinical effectiveness was acceptable. However, it was subject to high levels of uncertainty, and the committee would need to interpret any survival estimates wit...

[24] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 23711)
    ...rtuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Health economic model: health-related quality of life assumptions 4.10 The committee discussed differences in the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains in the SMC and NICE company submissions (0.31 in the SMC submission, 0.261 in the NICE submission). It also discussed the differences in the...

[25] term: 'QALY' (char offset 23778)
    ...er Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Health economic model: health-related quality of life assumptions 4.10 The committee discussed differences in the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains in the SMC and NICE company submissions (0.31 in the SMC submission, 0.261 in the NICE submission). It also discussed the differences in the utility value for the progressed state used in the ...

[26] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24115)
    ...ferences in the utility value for the progressed state used in the model (0.5 in the SMC submission, 0.452 in the NICE submission). The committee heard from the company that some of the difference in QALY gains was because it had added an extra assumption to the model submitted to NICE, specifically that the utility value could not be higher than the age-matched population without disease. The company...

[27] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 25161)
    ...epted this explanation and concluded that the health-related quality of life assumptions used in the NICE model were appropriate for decision- making. Health economic model: cost assumptions 4.11 The committee discussed whether the inclusion of drugs funded by the CDF in the metastatic heath states was a fair reflection of the future costs of treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer in England. The committee noted ...

[28] term: 'CDF' (char offset 25226)
    ...ity of life assumptions used in the NICE model were appropriate for decision- making. Health economic model: cost assumptions 4.11 The committee discussed whether the inclusion of drugs funded by the CDF in the metastatic heath states was a fair reflection of the future costs of treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer in England. The committee noted that by including these drugs, the additional cos...

[29] term: 'CDF' (char offset 25581)
    ...hat by including these drugs, the additional costs of neoadjuvant pertuzumab were being offset in the model by the costs of additional drugs for metastatic disease in the comparator arm funded by the CDF (including pertuzumab and trastuzumab emtansine). The committee was aware that the CDF is a temporary funding vehicle for cancer drugs that National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 12 o...

[30] term: 'CDF' (char offset 25668)
    ... offset in the model by the costs of additional drugs for metastatic disease in the comparator arm funded by the CDF (including pertuzumab and trastuzumab emtansine). The committee was aware that the CDF is a temporary funding vehicle for cancer drugs that National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 12 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-p...

[31] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 25971)
    ...nce Page 12 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED cannot yet demonstrate cost effectiveness, and is currently in a transitional period to determine which drugs should be funded. For patients starting neoadjuvant treatment today, the costs of treatment for metastatic disease (if needed) are ...

[32] term: 'CDF' (char offset 26285)
    ...nts starting neoadjuvant treatment today, the costs of treatment for metastatic disease (if needed) are likely to be incurred several years in the future, by which time there is no guarantee that the CDF will still be operating in the same way. The committee was aware that in modelling the future costs and benefits of treatments, there is always an element of uncertainty. However, given the transitio...

[33] term: 'CDF' (char offset 26506)
    ...rating in the same way. The committee was aware that in modelling the future costs and benefits of treatments, there is always an element of uncertainty. However, given the transitional nature of the CDF, the committee questioned the validity of the large cost offsets assumed by the company. The committee also noted the ERG’s comment that the company had incorporated pertuzumab as a second-line metas...

[34] term: 'CDF' (char offset 27040)
    ...t had previous anti- HER2 therapy or chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. Furthermore, the committee raised concerns about the company’s precise drug costs. The company used list prices for the CDF-funded treatments, but the NHS may be paying lower prices for these drugs which would increase the ICER. In its response to the appraisal consultation document, the company provided various scenario ...

[35] term: 'ICER' (char offset 27143)
    ...tee raised concerns about the company’s precise drug costs. The company used list prices for the CDF-funded treatments, but the NHS may be paying lower prices for these drugs which would increase the ICER. In its response to the appraisal consultation document, the company provided various scenario analyses that changed assumptions for the drugs funded by the CDF, including using actual costs currentl...

[36] term: 'CDF' (char offset 27305)
    ... these drugs which would increase the ICER. In its response to the appraisal consultation document, the company provided various scenario analyses that changed assumptions for the drugs funded by the CDF, including using actual costs currently paid by the NHS for these drugs, and completely removing CDF-funded treatments. Furthermore, in order to mitigate the risks of any future changes to the CDF, t...

[37] term: 'CDF' (char offset 27406)
    ...he company provided various scenario analyses that changed assumptions for the drugs funded by the CDF, including using actual costs currently paid by the NHS for these drugs, and completely removing CDF-funded treatments. Furthermore, in order to mitigate the risks of any future changes to the CDF, the company submitted a confidential simple discount patient access scheme. The committee appreciated ...

[38] term: 'CDF' (char offset 27502)
    ...he CDF, including using actual costs currently paid by the NHS for these drugs, and completely removing CDF-funded treatments. Furthermore, in order to mitigate the risks of any future changes to the CDF, the company submitted a confidential simple discount patient access scheme. The committee appreciated the company’s attempt to resolve the uncertainty both with the presentation of additional scenar...

[39] term: 'discount' (char offset 27551)
    ...id by the NHS for these drugs, and completely removing CDF-funded treatments. Furthermore, in order to mitigate the risks of any future changes to the CDF, the company submitted a confidential simple discount patient access scheme. The committee appreciated the company’s attempt to resolve the uncertainty both with the presentation of additional scenario analyses, and the offer to risk-share against any c...

[40] term: 'CDF' (char offset 27769)
    ...ccess scheme. The committee appreciated the company’s attempt to resolve the uncertainty both with the presentation of additional scenario analyses, and the offer to risk-share against any changes in CDF-funded treatments by reducing the costs of pertuzumab. It concluded that this helped to reduce uncertainty in the cost- effectiveness results. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 1...

[41] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 28151)
    ...are Excellence Page 13 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Incremental cost-effectiveness results 4.12 The committee considered the cost-effectiveness results presented by the company and the ERG. It noted that in the original company submission and ERG report, there were a number of diff...

[42] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 28187)
    ...ppraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Incremental cost-effectiveness results 4.12 The committee considered the cost-effectiveness results presented by the company and the ERG. It noted that in the original company submission and ERG report, there were a number of different base-case scenarios, but that al...

[43] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 28212)
    ...Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Incremental cost-effectiveness results 4.12 The committee considered the cost-effectiveness results presented by the company and the ERG. It noted that in the original company submission and ERG report, there were a number of different base-case scenarios, but that all were subject to uncer...

[44] term: 'CDF' (char offset 28533)
    ... report, there were a number of different base-case scenarios, but that all were subject to uncertainty. Particular issues of relevance included assumptions about the future costs and availability of CDF- funded treatments, and also effectiveness assumptions. In exploratory analyses, both the company and ERG models were most sensitive to assumptions about clinical effectiveness (that is, assumptions ...

[45] term: 'CDF' (char offset 29218)
    ...tuzumab and docetaxel (section 4.4), and that correspondingly high rates of pathological complete response had also been demonstrated in the TRYPHAENA trial. With respect to costs and availability of CDF drugs in the metastatic setting, the company had attempted to address uncertainty in scenario analyses (section 4.11). The committee agreed that because of the high levels of uncertainty in the cost-...

[46] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 29416)
    ...f CDF drugs in the metastatic setting, the company had attempted to address uncertainty in scenario analyses (section 4.11). The committee agreed that because of the high levels of uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness assumptions, it would be prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee...

[47] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29497)
    ...tainty in scenario analyses (section 4.11). The committee agreed that because of the high levels of uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness assumptions, it would be prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating...

[48] term: 'CDF' (char offset 29616)
    ...cost-effectiveness assumptions, it would be prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a...

[49] term: 'discount' (char offset 29713)
    ...RG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee noted that the comparatively early regulatory appr...

[50] term: 'ICER' (char offset 29764)
    ...st offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee noted that the comparatively early regulatory approval for pertuzumab had limited the clinical tr...

[51] term: 'discount' (char offset 30176)
    ...ence available such that it was suboptimal for the purposes of long-term modelling and health technology assessment. In these uncertain circumstances, the committee welcomed the company’s approach to discount the cost of pertuzumab as it increased the likelihood that pertuzumab would be cost effective with more conservative assumptions than had been used in the model. The National Institute for Health and...

[52] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 30574)
    ...Health and Care Excellence Page 14 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED committee concluded that pertuzumab could be recommended as a cost- effective use of NHS resources for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2- positive breast cancer. 4.13 The committee discussed whether it would be appropri...

[53] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 30745)
    ...CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED committee concluded that pertuzumab could be recommended as a cost- effective use of NHS resources for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2- positive breast cancer. 4.13 The committee discussed whether it would be appropriate to specify the number of cycles of pertuzumab that should be used in clinical practice. It was aware that the NeoSphere trial and the model used 4 cycles, but that the...

[54] term: 'discount' (char offset 31448)
    ...ert stated that the clinical effect of 3 cycles was probably the same as the effect after 6 cycles. The committee noted that the ERG had done a sensitivity analysis (without the patient access scheme discount) varying the number of cycles of pertuzumab, which caused the ICER to increase from £23,467 per QALY gained (ERG’s base case, based on 4 cycles of pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycl...

[55] term: 'ICER' (char offset 31519)
    ...s the effect after 6 cycles. The committee noted that the ERG had done a sensitivity analysis (without the patient access scheme discount) varying the number of cycles of pertuzumab, which caused the ICER to increase from £23,467 per QALY gained (ERG’s base case, based on 4 cycles of pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycles of pertuzumab and amending the costs but not the effectiveness o...

[56] term: '£23,467' (char offset 31541)
    ...ycles. The committee noted that the ERG had done a sensitivity analysis (without the patient access scheme discount) varying the number of cycles of pertuzumab, which caused the ICER to increase from £23,467 per QALY gained (ERG’s base case, based on 4 cycles of pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycles of pertuzumab and amending the costs but not the effectiveness of treatment), suggesting ...

[57] term: 'QALY' (char offset 31553)
    ...ommittee noted that the ERG had done a sensitivity analysis (without the patient access scheme discount) varying the number of cycles of pertuzumab, which caused the ICER to increase from £23,467 per QALY gained (ERG’s base case, based on 4 cycles of pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycles of pertuzumab and amending the costs but not the effectiveness of treatment), suggesting that the ...

[58] term: '£42,955' (char offset 31619)
    ...ut the patient access scheme discount) varying the number of cycles of pertuzumab, which caused the ICER to increase from £23,467 per QALY gained (ERG’s base case, based on 4 cycles of pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycles of pertuzumab and amending the costs but not the effectiveness of treatment), suggesting that the results were sensitive to this assumption. The committee concluded th...

[59] term: 'QALY' (char offset 31631)
    ...nt access scheme discount) varying the number of cycles of pertuzumab, which caused the ICER to increase from £23,467 per QALY gained (ERG’s base case, based on 4 cycles of pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycles of pertuzumab and amending the costs but not the effectiveness of treatment), suggesting that the results were sensitive to this assumption. The committee concluded that patien...

[60] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 31804)
    ...pertuzumab) to £42,955 per QALY gained (using 6 cycles of pertuzumab and amending the costs but not the effectiveness of treatment), suggesting that the results were sensitive to this assumption. The committee concluded that patients should normally have no more than 4 cycles of neoadjuvant treatment with pertuzumab. Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) 2014 4.14 The committee was aware of NICE’s position s...

[61] term: 'discount' (char offset 33339)
    ...e breast cancer; that is, in patients with HER2-positive, locally advanced, inflammatory 4.13 or early-stage breast cancer at high risk of recurrence, only if the company provides pertuzumab with the discount agreed in the patient access scheme. Patients should normally have no more than 4 cycles of neoadjuvant treatment with pertuzumab. The committee agreed that because of the high levels of uncertainty ...

[62] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 33554)
    ... in the patient access scheme. Patients should normally have no more than 4 cycles of neoadjuvant treatment with pertuzumab. The committee agreed that because of the high levels of uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness assumptions, it would be prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee...

[63] term: 'ICER' (char offset 33635)
    ...s of neoadjuvant treatment with pertuzumab. The committee agreed that because of the high levels of uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness assumptions, it would be prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating...

[64] term: 'CDF' (char offset 33754)
    ...cost-effectiveness assumptions, it would be prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a...

[65] term: 'discount' (char offset 33851)
    ...RG, and to focus on scenarios which excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. Current practice National Institute for Health and Care Excellen...

[66] term: 'ICER' (char offset 33902)
    ...st offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. Current practice National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 16 of 27 Final appraisal determination ...

[67] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 35634)
    ...ely to have also been treated. A reduction or disappearance of tumour in the breast also potentially allows for less radical surgery in patients who would otherwise be advised to have mastectomy. The committee concluded that there was evidence that pertuzumab could improve rates National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 17 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of...

[68] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 37977)
    ...erse events in 4.8 NeoSphere were similar in both the intervention and comparator arms. The committee also heard from the patient expert who found the effects of pertuzumab to be very manageable. The committee concluded that pertuzumab had an acceptable adverse event profile. Evidence for clinical effectiveness Availability, nature The committee concluded that the clinical trial 4.3 and quality of evidence for pertu...

[69] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 38115)
    ...ho found the effects of pertuzumab to be very manageable. The committee concluded that pertuzumab had an acceptable adverse event profile. Evidence for clinical effectiveness Availability, nature The committee concluded that the clinical trial 4.3 and quality of evidence for pertuzumab in the neoadjuvant evidence setting was limited, but in the absence of stronger evidence, results from NeoSphere could be used as th...

[70] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 38713)
    ...ing practice in the NHS ‘operable’ disease (defined as tumours over 2 cm in diameter with no lymph nodes or only 1 lymph node involved), and people in this category would have the best prognosis. The committee considered that there were likely to have been very few UK patients in the trial; there were only 214 patients who had National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 19 of 27 Final appraisal determinati...

[71] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 39384)
    ...e UK. committee concluded that although there was some uncertainty about the generalisability of the NeoSphere trial to current NHS practice, it was appropriate for decision-making. Uncertainties The committee discussed the value of 4.5 generated by the pathological complete response as a clinically evidence meaningful indicator of longer-term survival outcomes. It was aware that a number of studies have been done i...

[72] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 41077)
    ...ger-term efficacy data, had small supporting evidence patient numbers, were open label, and were not powered for key outcomes of interest including progression-free survival and overall survival. The committee concluded that the clinical trial evidence for pertuzumab in the neoadjuvant setting was limited, but in the absence of stronger evidence, results from NeoSphere could be used as the basis of its decision-maki...

[73] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 41338)
    ...uzumab in the neoadjuvant setting was limited, but in the absence of stronger evidence, results from NeoSphere could be used as the basis of its decision-making, supported by data from TRYPHAENA. The committee concluded that there was evidence that pertuzumab could improve rates of pathological complete response when added to trastuzumab and docetaxel, and that that pathological complete response was more likely tha...

[74] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 41626)
    ...logical complete response when added to trastuzumab and docetaxel, and that that pathological complete response was more likely than not to have an association with longer-term survival. Evidence for cost effectiveness National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 21 of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFI...

[75] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 41975)
    ...atment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Availability and The company derived a new economic model. 4.8 nature of evidence Uncertainties around The committee concluded that the structure of 4.8 and plausibility of the model was generally appropriate for assumptions and decision-making, although it was still subject inputs in the to uncertainty because of some param...

[76] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 42248)
    ...el was generally appropriate for assumptions and decision-making, although it was still subject inputs in the to uncertainty because of some parameter economic model assumptions. Incorporation of The committee discussed differences in the 4.10 health-related quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains and quality-of-life the utility value for the progressed state used benefits and utility in the models in submissions to...

[77] term: 'QALY' (char offset 42335)
    ... subject inputs in the to uncertainty because of some parameter economic model assumptions. Incorporation of The committee discussed differences in the 4.10 health-related quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains and quality-of-life the utility value for the progressed state used benefits and utility in the models in submissions to the Scottish values Medicines Consortium (SMC) and NICE. At the first a...

[78] term: 'ICER' (char offset 44571)
    ...TIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Most likely cost- The committee agreed that because of the 4.12 effectiveness high levels of uncertainty in the cost- estimate (given as effectiveness assumptions, it would be an ICER) prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios that excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more...

[79] term: 'ICER' (char offset 44614)
    ...committee agreed that because of the 4.12 effectiveness high levels of uncertainty in the cost- estimate (given as effectiveness assumptions, it would be an ICER) prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios that excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating ...

[80] term: 'CDF' (char offset 44732)
    ...ectiveness assumptions, it would be an ICER) prudent to use the more conservative ICERs from the ERG, and to focus on scenarios that excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a...

[81] term: 'discount' (char offset 44829)
    ...ERG, and to focus on scenarios that excluded any cost offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee noted that the comparatively early regulatory appr...

[82] term: 'ICER' (char offset 44880)
    ...st offsets from metastatic treatments funded by the CDF. The committee noted that in these more conservative scenarios, and incorporating the simple discount patient access scheme for pertuzumab, the ICERs fell within the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee noted that the comparatively early regulatory approval for pertuzumab had limited the clinical tr...

[83] term: 'discount' (char offset 45292)
    ...ence available such that it was suboptimal for the purposes of long-term modelling and health technology assessment. In these uncertain circumstances, the committee welcomed the company’s approach to discount the cost of pertuzumab as it increased the likelihood that pertuzumab would be cost effective with more conservative assumptions than had been used in the model. The committee concluded that pertuzum...

[84] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 45467)
    ...he company’s approach to discount the cost of pertuzumab as it increased the likelihood that pertuzumab would be cost effective with more conservative assumptions than had been used in the model. The committee concluded that pertuzumab could be recommended as a cost-effective use of NHS resources for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer. Additional factors taken into account National Institute fo...

[85] term: 'End-of-life' (char offset 45922)
    ... of 27 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab for the neoadjuvant treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer Issue date: November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Patient access N/A schemes (PPRS) End-of-life N/A considerations Equalities N/A considerations and social value judgements 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7(6) of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Constitution and Functions) an...

[86] term: 'discount' (char offset 47542)
    ...November 2016 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 5.4 The Department of Health and Roche have agreed that pertuzumab will be available to the NHS with a patient access scheme which makes it available with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the responsibility of the company to communicate details of the discount to the relevant NHS organisations. Any enquiries from NHS organis...

[87] term: 'discount' (char offset 47568)
    ... UNTIL PUBLISHED 5.4 The Department of Health and Roche have agreed that pertuzumab will be available to the NHS with a patient access scheme which makes it available with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the responsibility of the company to communicate details of the discount to the relevant NHS organisations. Any enquiries from NHS organisations about the patient a...

[88] term: 'discount' (char offset 47676)
    ... NHS with a patient access scheme which makes it available with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the responsibility of the company to communicate details of the discount to the relevant NHS organisations. Any enquiries from NHS organisations about the patient access scheme should be directed to giles.harper@roche.com. 6 Review of guidance 6.1 The guidance on this tec...