TA458_final_appraisal.txt: 133 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: '£1,641' (char offset 3062)
    ...tuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Price The list price for trastuzumab emtansine is £1,641.01 for a 100 mg vial and £2,625.62 for a 160 mg vial (excluding VAT, British national formulary online, accessed February 2017). The company estimates that the average cost of a course of treatment i...

[2] term: '£2,625' (char offset 3094)
    ...ER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Price The list price for trastuzumab emtansine is £1,641.01 for a 100 mg vial and £2,625.62 for a 160 mg vial (excluding VAT, British national formulary online, accessed February 2017). The company estimates that the average cost of a course of treatment is £91,614, using the list price,...

[3] term: '£91,614,' (char offset 3270)
    ...1 for a 100 mg vial and £2,625.62 for a 160 mg vial (excluding VAT, British national formulary online, accessed February 2017). The company estimates that the average cost of a course of treatment is £91,614, using the list price, and based on a 3-weekly dose of 3.6 mg/kg, a patient weight of 70.1 kg and an average length of treatment of 14.5 months. The pricing arrangement considered during guidance deve...

[4] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 4141)
    ...e commercial in confidence. 3 Evidence 3.1 The appraisal committee (section 7) considered evidence submitted by Roche and a review of this submission by the evidence review group. The appraisal was a Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of NICE’s technology appraisal guidance on trastuzumab emtansine for the treatment of HER2-positive, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after treatment with tra...

[5] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 4423)
    ...uzumab emtansine for the treatment of HER2-positive, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after treatment with trastuzumab and a taxane. The committee also considered the updated cost-effectiveness analyses submitted by Roche after consultation and its critique by the evidence review group. 3.2 Sections 4.1 to 4.26 reflect the committee’s consideration of the evidence submitted in December 2013...

[6] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 5782)
    ..., in a mixed treatment comparison of trastuzumab emtansine and the other comparators listed in the scope. Sections 4.27 to 4.35 reflect the committee’s consideration of the evidence submitted for the Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration. The new evidence included additional follow-up data from EMILIA, which was used to model overall survival. New cost-effectiveness analyses were done using a complex patient access sc...

[7] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 5928)
    ...tee’s consideration of the evidence submitted for the Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration. The new evidence included additional follow-up data from EMILIA, which was used to model overall survival. New cost-effectiveness analyses were done using a complex patient access scheme. The patient access scheme considered by the committee was subsequently replaced by a commercial access agreement between Roche and NHS Englan...

[8] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 6432)
    ...reatment to the latest patient access scheme offer, and a simpler operational approach. The details of the agreement are commercial in confidence. 3.3 See the committee papers for full details of the Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration evidence, and the history for full details of the evidence used in NICE’s original technology appraisal guidance on trastuzumab emtansine. 4 Committee discussion The appraisal committ...

[9] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 6700)
    ... details of the evidence used in NICE’s original technology appraisal guidance on trastuzumab emtansine. 4 Committee discussion The appraisal committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine, having considered evidence on the nature of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)- positive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer and the val...

[10] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 7430)
    ...treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Clinical effectiveness (NICE technology appraisal guidance 371) 4.1 The committee discussed with patient experts the nature of the condition and the perceived benefits of trastuzumab emtansine for patients. It heard that metastatic breast cancer is a debilitating condition that can affect w...

[11] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 8379)
    ... of the other options. The committee recognised that patients value the availability of more treatment options and that trastuzumab emtansine would be welcomed by patients and their families. 4.2 The committee discussed with the clinical experts the current clinical management of HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. It was aware that NICE recommends trastuzumab plus paclitaxel as a first-line treatment for people...

[12] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 9397)
    ...herapy has become the standard first-line treatment in clinical practice, but more recently in England patients may receive pertuzumab in addition to trastuzumab and docetaxel, which is funded by the Cancer Drugs Fund. It further heard that National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 5 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after tra...

[13] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 10347)
    ...l experts that contrary to NICE guidance, single-agent chemotherapy (for example, capecitabine or vinorelbine) is not routinely used for patients whose disease progressed on first-line treatment. The committee concluded that local access to treatments and the availability of treatments through the Cancer Drugs Fund led to some variation in clinical practice so that no single pathway of care could be defined. 4.3 The...

[14] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 10567)
    ...that local access to treatments and the availability of treatments through the Cancer Drugs Fund led to some variation in clinical practice so that no single pathway of care could be defined. 4.3 The committee considered the likely position of trastuzumab emtansine in the treatment pathway of HER2-positive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer and the key comparators for trastuzumab emtansine in...

[15] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 11167)
    ...herapy or lapatinib plus capecitabine) because trastuzumab emtansine has been shown to be more clinically effective than the alternative second-line agent, lapatinib plus capecitabine, in EMILIA. The committee concluded that based on current clinical practice, trastuzumab plus capecitabine, trastuzumab plus vinorelbine and lapatinib plus capecitabine were relevant comparators at this stage of the disease. 4.4 The co...

[16] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 11384)
    ...ed that based on current clinical practice, trastuzumab plus capecitabine, trastuzumab plus vinorelbine and lapatinib plus capecitabine were relevant comparators at this stage of the disease. 4.4 The committee discussed which sources of trial data were appropriate for the second-line setting, in which trastuzumab emtansine is likely to be used. The committee was aware that 36% of patients in EMILIA and 0% of patient...

[17] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 11992)
    ...al appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED proportions, the committee concluded that EMILIA was the most relevant source of clinical evidence for its decision-making in this appraisal. 4.5 The committee discussed whether the results from EMILIA were generalisable to clinical pra...

[18] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 12125)
    ...ssue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED proportions, the committee concluded that EMILIA was the most relevant source of clinical evidence for its decision-making in this appraisal. 4.5 The committee discussed whether the results from EMILIA were generalisable to clinical practice, noting that patients in England may receive pertuzumab plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel in the first-line setting. It heard fro...

[19] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 12555)
    ...ny that 9.5% of patients in EMILIA had previously received pertuzumab therapy (10.3% of patients in the trastuzumab emtansine group, 8.7% of patients in the lapatinib plus capecitabine group) but the committee considered this proportion too small to determine whether the effect of trastuzumab emtansine differed in patients who had previously received pertuzumab. In addition, the committee heard from the clinical expe...

[20] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 14449)
    ...L PUBLISHED representative of patients in the UK. It concluded that the results of EMILIA were suitable for assessing the clinical effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine in clinical practice. 4.7 The committee considered the clinical effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine as a second-line treatment. It was aware that in EMILIA, patients in the trastuzumab emtansine group had improved survival compared with patients i...

[21] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 15305)
    ...dition, the committee heard from the clinical experts that there is no biologically plausible reason for the effect to differ according to the number of previous treatments patients had received. The committee concluded that the subgroup analysis was not reliable enough to inform a decision about the clinical effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine as a second-line treatment. 4.8 The committee took note of the patien...

[22] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 16111)
    ...patients respectively). It also heard from the company that the most common adverse event that resulted in patients stopping trastuzumab emtansine was a decreased platelet count (2% of patients). The committee concluded that trastuzumab emtansine had been shown to have a satisfactory adverse event profile in EMILIA. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 8 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastu...

[23] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 16486)
    ...of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 4.9 The committee considered the Bayesian mixed treatment comparison used by the company to estimate hazard ratios for trastuzumab emtansine relative to the comparators for which no head-to-head evidence existed. The committee a...

[24] term: 'Cost effectiveness' (char offset 17189)
    ...cluded in the base-case analysis to use all available evidence and that the ERG's random effects model would better reflect the heterogeneity between the trials than the company's fixed effect model. Cost effectiveness (NICE technology appraisal guidance 371) 4.10 The committee considered the company's economic model used to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine and how it captured the main aspec...

[25] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 17258)
    ...at the ERG's random effects model would better reflect the heterogeneity between the trials than the company's fixed effect model. Cost effectiveness (NICE technology appraisal guidance 371) 4.10 The committee considered the company's economic model used to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine and how it captured the main aspects of the condition. It noted that the company used a 3-state model and...

[26] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 17329)
    ...y between the trials than the company's fixed effect model. Cost effectiveness (NICE technology appraisal guidance 371) 4.10 The committee considered the company's economic model used to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine and how it captured the main aspects of the condition. It noted that the company used a 3-state model and chose a time horizon of 10 years for its base case. The committee ag...

[27] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 18055)
    ... The committee agreed that in principle a lifetime time horizon should be used to capture all long-term costs and health effects. It concluded that the company's model was appropriate to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine, but that a 15-year time horizon should be used. 4.11 The committee considered the utility values used in the company's model. It noted that in the progression-free state, th...

[28] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 18157)
    ...m costs and health effects. It concluded that the company's model was appropriate to estimate the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine, but that a 15-year time horizon should be used. 4.11 The committee considered the utility values used in the company's model. It noted that in the progression-free state, the company applied a higher utility value for trastuzumab emtansine than for its comparators. The company...

[29] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 19059)
    ...the clinical experts indicated that most adverse events resolve within a few weeks, whereas in the model the utility values were applied throughout the entire progression-free state. In addition, the committee considered that applying a higher utility value for trastuzumab emtansine could result in treatment benefit being double- counted and overestimated, because the utility decrements for adverse events already cap...

[30] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 20390)
    ...that EMILIA was an open-label trial, which may have introduced bias in the outcomes reported by patients, but noted the additional evidence on wellbeing and side effects presented by the company. The committee concluded that a marginally higher utility value for trastuzumab emtansine in the progression-free state could be accepted in this appraisal. 4.12 The committee noted that in its cost-effectiveness analysis, t...

[31] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 20579)
    ...mpany. The committee concluded that a marginally higher utility value for trastuzumab emtansine in the progression-free state could be accepted in this appraisal. 4.12 The committee noted that in its cost-effectiveness analysis, the company assumed clinical equivalence between capecitabine and vinorelbine, and between trastuzumab plus capecitabine and trastuzumab plus vinorelbine. The committee discussed with the c...

[32] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 20767)
    ...that in its cost-effectiveness analysis, the company assumed clinical equivalence between capecitabine and vinorelbine, and between trastuzumab plus capecitabine and trastuzumab plus vinorelbine. The committee discussed with the clinical experts whether this National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 10 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast...

[33] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 21440)
    ...ed that the precise clinical difference between capecitabine and vinorelbine had not been established in clinical trials, although in their opinion it would be reasonable to assume no difference. The committee concluded that, although it would be preferable to base the comparison on data from well-conducted clinical trials, the assumption of no difference between capecitabine- and vinorelbine-based regimens in the m...

[34] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 21712)
    ...mparison on data from well-conducted clinical trials, the assumption of no difference between capecitabine- and vinorelbine-based regimens in the model could be justified for this appraisal. 4.13 The committee considered the adverse events associated with trastuzumab emtansine in relation to the economic modelling. It noted that the model incorporated utility decrements for only 3 adverse events and costs for 2 adver...

[35] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 22242)
    ...ab emtansine, including decreased platelet counts. The committee was aware that when the ERG included the costs of the adverse events that occurred frequently in EMILIA, this had little impact on the cost-effectiveness estimates. However, it concluded that the model should have incorporated both the decrease in utility and the increased costs associated with adverse events. 4.14 The committee considered the cost-ef...

[36] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 22428)
    ...impact on the cost-effectiveness estimates. However, it concluded that the model should have incorporated both the decrease in utility and the increased costs associated with adverse events. 4.14 The committee considered the cost-effectiveness results for trastuzumab emtansine. It noted the company's suggestion that lapatinib plus capecitabine should be excluded from the analysis because the incremental cost-effectiv...

[37] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 22453)
    ...iveness estimates. However, it concluded that the model should have incorporated both the decrease in utility and the increased costs associated with adverse events. 4.14 The committee considered the cost-effectiveness results for trastuzumab emtansine. It noted the company's suggestion that lapatinib plus capecitabine should be excluded from the analysis because the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for ...

[38] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 22635)
    ...ee considered the cost-effectiveness results for trastuzumab emtansine. It noted the company's suggestion that lapatinib plus capecitabine should be excluded from the analysis because the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for lapatinib plus capecitabine compared with capecitabine alone was £49,800 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, which the company considered to be above the acceptable maximum...

[39] term: 'ICER' (char offset 22661)
    ...ectiveness results for trastuzumab emtansine. It noted the company's suggestion that lapatinib plus capecitabine should be excluded from the analysis because the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for lapatinib plus capecitabine compared with capecitabine alone was £49,800 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, which the company considered to be above the acceptable maximum ICER normal...

[40] term: '£49,800' (char offset 22736)
    ...tion that lapatinib plus capecitabine should be excluded from the analysis because the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for lapatinib plus capecitabine compared with capecitabine alone was £49,800 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, which the company considered to be above the acceptable maximum ICER normally regarded by NICE to represent cost- effective treatments. The committee was...

[41] term: 'QALY' (char offset 22776)
    ...ould be excluded from the analysis because the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for lapatinib plus capecitabine compared with capecitabine alone was £49,800 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, which the company considered to be above the acceptable maximum ICER normally regarded by NICE to represent cost- effective treatments. The committee was aware that excluding a technology ba...

[42] term: 'ICER' (char offset 22854)
    ...ratio (ICER) for lapatinib plus capecitabine compared with capecitabine alone was £49,800 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, which the company considered to be above the acceptable maximum ICER normally regarded by NICE to represent cost- effective treatments. The committee was aware that excluding a technology based on its cost effectiveness in relation to a maximum ICER does not comply wi...

[43] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 22991)
    ...hich the company considered to be above the acceptable maximum ICER normally regarded by NICE to represent cost- effective treatments. The committee was aware that excluding a technology based on its cost effectiveness in relation to a maximum ICER does not comply with the NICE reference case, which recommends a fully National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 11 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Tr...

[44] term: 'ICER' (char offset 23035)
    ...acceptable maximum ICER normally regarded by NICE to represent cost- effective treatments. The committee was aware that excluding a technology based on its cost effectiveness in relation to a maximum ICER does not comply with the NICE reference case, which recommends a fully National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 11 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treati...

[45] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 23521)
    ... June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED incremental cost–utility analysis. The committee agreed that there was no reason on this occasion to depart from the NICE reference case. It concluded that the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine should be evaluated in an incremental analysis comparing all technologies including lapatinib plus capecitabine. 4.15 The committee discussed the most plausible ICERs for tra...

[46] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 23687)
    ...rence case. It concluded that the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine should be evaluated in an incremental analysis comparing all technologies including lapatinib plus capecitabine. 4.15 The committee discussed the most plausible ICERs for trastuzumab emtansine without the patient access scheme. It agreed that lapatinib plus capecitabine, trastuzumab plus capecitabine and trastuzumab plus vinorelbine were i...

[47] term: 'ICER' (char offset 23726)
    ...effectiveness of trastuzumab emtansine should be evaluated in an incremental analysis comparing all technologies including lapatinib plus capecitabine. 4.15 The committee discussed the most plausible ICERs for trastuzumab emtansine without the patient access scheme. It agreed that lapatinib plus capecitabine, trastuzumab plus capecitabine and trastuzumab plus vinorelbine were in routine use in clinica...

[48] term: 'ICER' (char offset 24416)
    ... base case, trastuzumab plus capecitabine and trastuzumab plus vinorelbine were more costly and less effective than lapatinib plus capecitabine (that is, they were dominated). The company's base-case ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with lapatinib plus capecitabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At it...

[49] term: '£167,200' (char offset 24493)
    ...re more costly and less effective than lapatinib plus capecitabine (that is, they were dominated). The company's base-case ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with lapatinib plus capecitabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ...

[50] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24506)
    ...y and less effective than lapatinib plus capecitabine (that is, they were dominated). The company's base-case ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with lapatinib plus capecitabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER rang...

[51] term: 'ICER' (char offset 24564)
    ...t is, they were dominated). The company's base-case ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with lapatinib plus capecitabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER range that would normally be considered a cost-effective use o...

[52] term: '£166,400' (char offset 24589)
    ...). The company's base-case ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with lapatinib plus capecitabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER range that would normally be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.16 At its ...

[53] term: 'QALY' (char offset 24602)
    ...y's base-case ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with lapatinib plus capecitabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER range that would normally be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.16 At its second me...

[54] term: 'ICER' (char offset 24682)
    ...tabine was £167,200 per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER range that would normally be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.16 At its second meeting, the committee considered the revised cost- effectiveness results incorpor...

[55] term: 'ICER' (char offset 24701)
    ... per QALY gained. The committee noted that the ERG's base-case ICER was very similar at £166,400 per QALY gained. At its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER range that would normally be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.16 At its second meeting, the committee considered the revised cost- effectiveness results incorporating the patient a...

[56] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 24817)
    ... its first meeting, the committee agreed that the most plausible ICER was above the ICER range that would normally be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. 4.16 At its second meeting, the committee considered the revised cost- effectiveness results incorporating the patient access scheme submitted in response to the appraisal consultation document (which are commercial in confidence). It expressed disappo...

[57] term: 'ICER' (char offset 25095)
    ... patient access scheme submitted in response to the appraisal consultation document (which are commercial in confidence). It expressed disappointment that the patient access scheme did not reduce the ICER to a level close to one that could be accepted as a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee concluded that the size of the discount in the patient access scheme meant that it was still una...

[58] term: 'discount' (char offset 25234)
    ...ppointment that the patient access scheme did not reduce the ICER to a level close to one that could be accepted as a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee concluded that the size of the discount in the patient access scheme meant that it was still unable to recommend trastuzumab emtansine for National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 12 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Tras...

[59] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 25716)
    ...trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED treating HER2-positive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane. 4.17 The committee considered whether trastuzumab emtansine represents an innovative treatment. It acknowledged that trastuzumab emtansine is a novel antibody–drug conjugate combining the HER2-targeted anti-tumour activity of tra...

[60] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 26096)
    ...ER2-targeted anti-tumour activity of trastuzumab with a cytotoxic agent. It also noted that trastuzumab emtansine prolonged survival, with less toxicity than lapatinib plus capecitabine. However, the committee considered that all benefits of a substantial nature relating to treatment with trastuzumab emtansine had been captured in the QALY calculation, including the favourable adverse event profile and increased prog...

[61] term: 'QALY' (char offset 26233)
    ...h less toxicity than lapatinib plus capecitabine. However, the committee considered that all benefits of a substantial nature relating to treatment with trastuzumab emtansine had been captured in the QALY calculation, including the favourable adverse event profile and increased progression-free and overall survival. 4.18 The committee considered supplementary advice from NICE that should be taken into...

[62] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 26360)
    ...elating to treatment with trastuzumab emtansine had been captured in the QALY calculation, including the favourable adverse event profile and increased progression-free and overall survival. 4.18 The committee considered supplementary advice from NICE that should be taken into account when appraising treatments that may extend the life of patients with a short life expectancy and that are licensed for indications tha...

[63] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 27582)
    ...f 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 4.19 The committee considered the criterion for short life expectancy. It agreed that the best estimate of expected survival using current standard NHS treatment was demonstrated in the control groups of the trials. The committee...

[64] term: 'end of life' (char offset 28138)
    ...oted the company's response to the appraisal consultation document suggesting that lapatinib plus capecitabine should not be considered a comparator in the context of life-extending treatments at the end of life because it is only available through the Cancer Drugs Fund. The committee was aware that it should be guided by established practice in the NHS when identifying the appropriate comparators, irrespect...

[65] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 28191)
    ...tion document suggesting that lapatinib plus capecitabine should not be considered a comparator in the context of life-extending treatments at the end of life because it is only available through the Cancer Drugs Fund. The committee was aware that it should be guided by established practice in the NHS when identifying the appropriate comparators, irrespective of how these are funded. The committee noted that lapat...

[66] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 28739)
    ... lapatinib plus capecitabine was a clinically relevant comparator in the second-line setting. Lapatinib plus capecitabine was also the relevant comparator for trastuzumab emtansine in the incremental cost-effectiveness analysis. After further consideration, the committee did not change its view that the evaluation of expected survival with current standard of care should be based on that of patients receiving lapat...

[67] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 29417)
    ...ted that in a clinical trial of lapatinib plus capecitabine compared with capecitabine alone (Cameron et al. 2010) the median survival with lapatinib plus capecitabine was 75 weeks (18.8 months). The committee considered evidence from this trial, together with other trials for lapatinib plus capecitabine in patients with advanced breast cancer. It noted that patients who received lapatinib plus capecitabine in EMILIA...

[68] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 30747)
    ...al from several trials of lapatinib plus capecitabine, it was prepared to accept that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled this criterion. It also accepted that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the other 2 end-of-life criteria, namely a small patient population (approximately 1,200) and a survival gain of at least 3 months. The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for end...

[69] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 30955)
    ...ife criteria, namely a small patient population (approximately 1,200) and a survival gain of at least 3 months. The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for end-of-life consideration. 4.20 Based on the considerations in section 4.19, the committee discussed whether trastuzumab emtansine represents a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It agreed that, even taking in...

[70] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 31036)
    ...val gain of at least 3 months. The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for end-of-life consideration. 4.20 Based on the considerations in section 4.19, the committee discussed whether trastuzumab emtansine represents a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It agreed that, even taking into account additional weights applied to QALY benefits for a life-extending treatment at ...

[71] term: 'QALY' (char offset 31207)
    ...rations in section 4.19, the committee discussed whether trastuzumab emtansine represents a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It agreed that, even taking into account additional weights applied to QALY benefits for a life-extending treatment at the end of life, the ICER incorporating the patient access scheme remained well above the range that could be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resourc...

[72] term: 'end of life' (char offset 31259)
    ...ther trastuzumab emtansine represents a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It agreed that, even taking into account additional weights applied to QALY benefits for a life-extending treatment at the end of life, the ICER incorporating the patient access scheme remained well above the range that could be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee concluded that trastuzumab emtansine coul...

[73] term: 'ICER' (char offset 31276)
    ...emtansine represents a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It agreed that, even taking into account additional weights applied to QALY benefits for a life-extending treatment at the end of life, the ICER incorporating the patient access scheme remained well above the range that could be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee concluded that trastuzumab emtansine could not be r...

[74] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 31419)
    ...s for a life-extending treatment at the end of life, the ICER incorporating the patient access scheme remained well above the range that could be considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources. The committee concluded that trastuzumab emtansine could not be recommended for treating HER2-positive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated with trastuzumab and a taxane. Pharmaceut...

[75] term: 'appeal' (char offset 31706)
    ...R2-positive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated with trastuzumab and a taxane. Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) 4.21 The committee met after an appeal against the final appraisal determination for this appraisal, which was upheld. The appeal panel had concluded that ‘the 2014 PPRS should have been taken into account, or, alternatively and sufficien...

[76] term: 'appeal' (char offset 31797)
    ...with trastuzumab and a taxane. Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) 4.21 The committee met after an appeal against the final appraisal determination for this appraisal, which was upheld. The appeal panel had concluded that ‘the 2014 PPRS should have been taken into account, or, alternatively and sufficiently for this appeal, that the possibility of the PPRS being relevant had not been sufficien...

[77] term: 'appeal' (char offset 31925)
    ...final appraisal determination for this appraisal, which was upheld. The appeal panel had concluded that ‘the 2014 PPRS should have been taken into account, or, alternatively and sufficiently for this appeal, that the possibility of the PPRS being relevant had not been sufficiently considered and its irrelevance established’. The committee noted that, after this appeal, National Institute for Health and ...

[78] term: 'appeal' (char offset 32089)
    ...rnatively and sufficiently for this appeal, that the possibility of the PPRS being relevant had not been sufficiently considered and its irrelevance established’. The committee noted that, after this appeal, National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 15 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane...

[79] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 32793)
    ...obligations on, nor create expectations of, NICE other than where these are explicitly stated in that agreement’. The Department of Health noted paragraph 4.9 of the PPRS which states that ‘the basic cost-effectiveness threshold used by NICE will be retained at a level consistent with the current range and not changed for the duration of the scheme’, and stated that ‘the PPRS contains no other provisions which requ...

[80] term: 'threshold' (char offset 32812)
    ... create expectations of, NICE other than where these are explicitly stated in that agreement’. The Department of Health noted paragraph 4.9 of the PPRS which states that ‘the basic cost-effectiveness threshold used by NICE will be retained at a level consistent with the current range and not changed for the duration of the scheme’, and stated that ‘the PPRS contains no other provisions which require NICE t...

[81] term: 'appeal' (char offset 33263)
    ...r technology appraisals, or to make an adjustment to its considerations to take account of the payment arrangements set out in the scheme agreement’. The committee understood that, in response to the appeal decision, NICE developed a position statement about the relevance of the 'PPRS payment mechanism' of the 2014 PPRS to assessing the cost effectiveness of new branded medicines. This took into account...

[82] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 33402)
    ...greement’. The committee understood that, in response to the appeal decision, NICE developed a position statement about the relevance of the 'PPRS payment mechanism' of the 2014 PPRS to assessing the cost effectiveness of new branded medicines. This took into account the views obtained from the Department of Health. It was subsequently refined in a targeted consultation with the Department of Health, the Associatio...

[83] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 35173)
    ...elevant consideration in its assessment of the cost effectiveness of branded medicines’, and that it should apply to all technology appraisals, not just to the appraisal of trastuzumab emtansine. The committee concluded that the 2 sole negotiators for the PPRS, that is the Department of the Health and the ABPI, fully supported the NICE position statement, but that the company disagreed with it. 4.22 The committee di...

[84] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 35380)
    ...ee concluded that the 2 sole negotiators for the PPRS, that is the Department of the Health and the ABPI, fully supported the NICE position statement, but that the company disagreed with it. 4.22 The committee discussed what the NICE position statement meant for its consideration of cost effectiveness. It noted the company's suggestion that the failure of NICE to identify a solution was not sufficient reason for the...

[85] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 35464)
    ... Health and the ABPI, fully supported the NICE position statement, but that the company disagreed with it. 4.22 The committee discussed what the NICE position statement meant for its consideration of cost effectiveness. It noted the company's suggestion that the failure of NICE to identify a solution was not sufficient reason for the committee to disregard the impact of the 2014 PPRS on its appraisal of trastuzumab...

[86] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 36557)
    ...ective. It also recalled paragraph 6.2.14 of the guide, which states that: ‘The potential budget impact of the adoption of a new technology does not determine the appraisal committee's decision.’ The committee concluded that it was not responsible for devising new methods for estimating cost effectiveness and, further, it had neither the remit nor the expertise to do so. Furthermore, it understood that the position ...

[87] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 37294)
    ...st cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED NICE position statement should not be disregarded without clear and coherent reasons for doing so. 4.23 The committee discussed whether the PPRS could potentially be relevant to assessing opportunity costs that underlie a NICE appraisal; that is, would NHS adoption of trastuzumab emtansine, or other branded medicines that wer...

[88] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 39221)
    ...entage applied to sales covered by the PPRS payment during the relevant quarter (excluding products launched after 1 January 2014), and that percentage will be equal for all companies. Therefore, the committee considered that the opportunity cost would not National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 18 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast ca...

[89] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 39770)
    ...r companies who have joined the 2014 PPRS, and would have to contribute a larger share to the rebate based on how much the allowed spend was exceeded because of trastuzumab emtansine prescribing. The committee concluded that, as it stands, the 2014 PPRS does not remove the opportunity cost from funding treatments that are not considered to be cost effective according to the normal methods of technology appraisals, a...

[90] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 40722)
    ...e for potential exceptions to the general position of NICE. The committee referred to the guidance in the guide to the methods of technology appraisal (2013) on considering prices for technologies in cost-effectiveness analyses. Specifically, it noted paragraph 5.5.2 which states that the public list prices for technologies should be used in the reference case analysis or alternatively, and when nationally availabl...

[91] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 41196)
    ... and consistently available across the NHS, and the period for which the specified price is available is guaranteed. Because of the role of the committee and the basis for the position statement, the committee concluded that it would only be able to apply the exception provided for in the position statement if the PPRS mechanism could be shown to reduce the cost of the technology to the NHS, and still be in keeping ...

[92] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 41709)
    ...f 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 4.25 The committee discussed the company's proposal that the committee issues positive guidance on trastuzumab emtansine conditional on the following:  The company remains within the 2014 PPRS scheme.  The spend level within t...

[93] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 42479)
    ...lysis. It also heard from NICE that accepting this proposal would potentially be unlawful for a number of reasons. Firstly, the committee would be overriding current guidance on the assessment of the cost effectiveness of health technologies and, by not applying its published methods of technology appraisal, this implies that NICE would not be fulfilling its statutory functions. This would also be incongruous with ...

[94] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 42748)
    ...blished methods of technology appraisal, this implies that NICE would not be fulfilling its statutory functions. This would also be incongruous with the 2014 PPRS itself, which states that ‘the basic cost-effectiveness threshold used by NICE will be retained at a level consistent with the current range and not changed for the duration of the scheme’, indicating that NICE should continue to assess cost effectiveness...

[95] term: 'threshold' (char offset 42767)
    ...technology appraisal, this implies that NICE would not be fulfilling its statutory functions. This would also be incongruous with the 2014 PPRS itself, which states that ‘the basic cost-effectiveness threshold used by NICE will be retained at a level consistent with the current range and not changed for the duration of the scheme’, indicating that NICE should continue to assess cost effectiveness. Secondly...

[96] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 42948)
    ...cost-effectiveness threshold used by NICE will be retained at a level consistent with the current range and not changed for the duration of the scheme’, indicating that NICE should continue to assess cost effectiveness. Secondly, accepting the proposal would potentially impact on the financial position of other pharmaceutical companies, with the potential legal implications referred to in the ABPI's response to con...

[97] term: 'discount' (char offset 43607)
    ...ccess schemes. These have to be approved by the Department of Health, which is also responsible for the 2014 PPRS. The committee noted that the company could have used this mechanism to apply a price discount in line with what it believed would be the true cost of trastuzumab National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 20 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating ...

[98] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 44395)
    ...ould be traced back to the opportunity cost of trastuzumab emtansine within the existing NICE guide to the methods of technology appraisal (2013), and NICE's statutory functions. Because of this, the committee concluded that the company's proposal did not represent an exception that might lead it to depart from the general position in the NICE statement. 4.26 In conclusion, the committee did not hear anything that i...

[99] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 45037)
    ...thods and processes of technology appraisal and are consistent with NICE's statutory functions. However, it did not consider that such proposals had been put forward in this appraisal. Therefore, the committee concluded that the 2014 PPRS did not affect its previous recommendations about trastuzumab emtansine. Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration 4.27 This appraisal was a Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of NICE’s tec...

[100] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 45149)
    ...not consider that such proposals had been put forward in this appraisal. Therefore, the committee concluded that the 2014 PPRS did not affect its previous recommendations about trastuzumab emtansine. Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration 4.27 This appraisal was a Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of NICE’s technology appraisal guidance on trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive, unresectable, locally advanced...

[101] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 45209)
    ...s appraisal. Therefore, the committee concluded that the 2014 PPRS did not affect its previous recommendations about trastuzumab emtansine. Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration 4.27 This appraisal was a Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of NICE’s technology appraisal guidance on trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after treatment with trastuzuma...

[102] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 51183)
    ...tee assumed that vinorelbine had been excluded because it was expected to be dominated (less effective and more costly) by capecitabine. The company also excluded lapatinib plus capecitabine from the cost-effectiveness analysis because lapatinib was removed from the Cancer Drugs Fund in January 2015. The company stated that it has independent audit data to suggest that lapatinib plus capecitabine no longer represen...

[103] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 51250)
    ...ted to be dominated (less effective and more costly) by capecitabine. The company also excluded lapatinib plus capecitabine from the cost-effectiveness analysis because lapatinib was removed from the Cancer Drugs Fund in January 2015. The company stated that it has independent audit data to suggest that lapatinib plus capecitabine no longer represents current practice in England. The committee heard that lapatinib...

[104] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 51489)
    ...company stated that it has independent audit data to suggest that lapatinib plus capecitabine no longer represents current practice in England. The committee heard that lapatinib was removed from the Cancer Drugs Fund because the evaluation score (which considers clinical effectiveness, toxicity and drug cost for the Cancer Drugs Fund) for lapatinib plus capecitabine was considered to be too low to keep it in the ...

[105] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 51608)
    ...ent practice in England. The committee heard that lapatinib was removed from the Cancer Drugs Fund because the evaluation score (which considers clinical effectiveness, toxicity and drug cost for the Cancer Drugs Fund) for lapatinib plus capecitabine was considered to be too low to keep it in the Fund. The committee heard from the Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead that drugs that had been removed from the Cancer Dru...

[106] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 51741)
    ...h considers clinical effectiveness, toxicity and drug cost for the Cancer Drugs Fund) for lapatinib plus capecitabine was considered to be too low to keep it in the Fund. The committee heard from the Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead that drugs that had been removed from the Cancer Drugs Fund were no longer commissioned in England. The committee noted that lapatinib plus capecitabine was removed after trastuzumab em...

[107] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 51815)
    ...Drugs Fund) for lapatinib plus capecitabine was considered to be too low to keep it in the Fund. The committee heard from the Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead that drugs that had been removed from the Cancer Drugs Fund were no longer commissioned in England. The committee noted that lapatinib plus capecitabine was removed after trastuzumab emtansine became available. Since then, trastuzumab emtansine has become par...

[108] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 52404)
    ...abine should be considered as the main comparator for trastuzumab emtansine. Responses from other consultees and commentators supported this view. The committee heard from the clinical expert and the Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead that if trastuzumab emtansine were not available, trastuzumab plus capecitabine was likely to National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 24 of 32 Final appraisal determinati...

[109] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 53724)
    ...had heard from experts at the committee meeting and in light of the consultation comments, trastuzumab plus capecitabine is the most relevant comparator. The company’s revised economic model 4.32 The committee considered the company’s updated economic model submitted for the cancer drugs fund reconsideration and the subsequent updates in response to the ERG’s critique. It also considered the ERG’s exploratory analyse...

[110] term: 'cancer drugs fund' (char offset 53800)
    ...tion comments, trastuzumab plus capecitabine is the most relevant comparator. The company’s revised economic model 4.32 The committee considered the company’s updated economic model submitted for the cancer drugs fund reconsideration and the subsequent updates in response to the ERG’s critique. It also considered the ERG’s exploratory analyses. It acknowledged that the final version of the model from the company t...

[111] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 55250)
    ...utions to determine the sensitivity of the economic model. As a result, the cost- effectiveness results presented by the company and the ERG were very similar. Calculation of treatment costs 4.33 The committee considered the company’s economic model and the ERG’s critique. The committee noted that the company initially estimated average vial use using the average dose from EMILIA, but also used patient level data to ...

[112] term: 'ICER' (char offset 55583)
    ...erage vial use using the average dose from EMILIA, but also used patient level data to calculate vial use after a request from the ERG. The committee noted that using patient level data increased the ICER compared with the company’s base case, but it recognised that this did not account for dose reductions or treatment breaks. The committee heard that there is vial sharing in oncology centres that hav...

[113] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 56190)
    ...used patient level data to calculate vial use, although the previous version of the model assumed that 50% of any drug remaining in a vial after the dose is drawn up is re-used and 50% is wasted. The committee concluded that some wastage needs to be included in the calculation of trastuzumab emtansine treatment costs, because assuming no wastage is not plausible. End-of-life considerations 4.34 The committee conside...

[114] term: 'End-of-life' (char offset 56356)
    ...is re-used and 50% is wasted. The committee concluded that some wastage needs to be included in the calculation of trastuzumab emtansine treatment costs, because assuming no wastage is not plausible. End-of-life considerations 4.34 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology appraisal process and meth...

[115] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 56392)
    ...mmittee concluded that some wastage needs to be included in the calculation of trastuzumab emtansine treatment costs, because assuming no wastage is not plausible. End-of-life considerations 4.34 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology appraisal process and methods. The committee noted that the updated med...

[116] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 56512)
    ...cause assuming no wastage is not plausible. End-of-life considerations 4.34 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology appraisal process and methods. The committee noted that the updated median overall survival in the EMILIA intention-to-treat population was 25.9 months for people randomised to lapatinib p...

[117] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 58220)
    ...metastatic disease who are eligible for trastuzumab emtansine had already progressed on first-line therapy and were in the advanced stages of the disease. Therefore the committee agreed to uphold the end-of-life decision from the original appraisal. It was aware that it was now looking at a different comparator from the one on which the original decision had been made (lapatinib plus capecitabine), but judge...

[118] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 58748)
    ...be marginal, taking into account the results of the network meta–analysis (see section 4.31). The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for a life-extending, end-of-life treatment for HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. Conclusions 4.35 The committee noted that the updated evidence available since the original appraisal confirms that trastuzumab emtansine is clinic...

[119] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 59721)
    ...ittee heard from experts at the committee meeting and in light of the consultation comments, it concluded that trastuzumab plus capecitabine is the most relevant comparator. Based on the clinical and cost-effectiveness analyses, including the updated complex patient access scheme, the most plausible ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab plus capecitabine was within the range that would normally b...

[120] term: 'ICER' (char offset 59822)
    ...uded that trastuzumab plus capecitabine is the most relevant comparator. Based on the clinical and cost-effectiveness analyses, including the updated complex patient access scheme, the most plausible ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab plus capecitabine was within the range that would normally be considered cost effective if the end-of-life criteria apply. The committee therefore ...

[121] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 59974)
    ...mplex patient access scheme, the most plausible ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab plus capecitabine was within the range that would normally be considered cost effective if the end-of-life criteria apply. The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine could be recommended for use in the NHS for treating HER2- positive advanced breast cancer. Summary of appraisal committee...

[122] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 60354)
    ... Summary of appraisal committee’s key conclusions TAXXX Appraisal title: Trastuzumab emtansine for Section treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Key conclusion (Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of TA371) Trastuzumab emtansine is recommended, within its marketing authorisation, 1.1, 4.35 as an option for treating human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive, unres...

[123] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 61443)
    .... Despite only indirect evidence of its effectiveness compared with trastuzumab plus capecitabine, there was no reason to consider that the benefits would not be comparable. Based on the clinical and cost-effectiveness analyses, including an updated complex patient access scheme (that was subsequently replaced by a commercial access agreement), the most plausible ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuz...

[124] term: 'ICER' (char offset 61609)
    ...arable. Based on the clinical and cost-effectiveness analyses, including an updated complex patient access scheme (that was subsequently replaced by a commercial access agreement), the most plausible ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab plus capecitabine was within the range that would normally be considered cost effective if the end-of-life criteria apply. National Institute for H...

[125] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 61761)
    ...ommercial access agreement), the most plausible ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab plus capecitabine was within the range that would normally be considered cost effective if the end-of-life criteria apply. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 28 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzum...

[126] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 62039)
    ...Page 28 of 32 Final appraisal determination – Trastuzumab emtansine for treating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of TA371 The company’s revised submission included: 4.27,  an additional 2 years follow-up data from EMILIA, which was used to 4.32, model overall survival and 4.34, 4.35  a complex...

[127] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 62582)
    ...calculate vial use  excluded an additional adjustment for wastage and  updated the patient access scheme and  updated the probabilistic sensitivity analysis in line with the ERG’s suggestions. The committee considered that based on what it heard from experts at the committee meeting and in light of the consultation comments, trastuzumab plus capecitabine is the only relevant comparator. It also recognised that dur...

[128] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 63585)
    ...s with metastatic disease eligible for trastuzumab emtansine had already progressed on first-line therapy, and were in the advanced stages of the disease. Therefore the committee agreed to uphold the end-of-life decision from the original appraisal. The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for a life- extending, end-of life treatment for HER2 positive advanced breas...

[129] term: 'end-of life' (char offset 63742)
    ...erefore the committee agreed to uphold the end-of-life decision from the original appraisal. The committee therefore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for a life- extending, end-of life treatment for HER2 positive advanced breast cancer. Taking into account all factors, including the end-of-life criteria and the commercial access agreement that replaced the updated complex patient a...

[130] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 63853)
    ...efore concluded that trastuzumab emtansine fulfilled the criteria for a life- extending, end-of life treatment for HER2 positive advanced breast cancer. Taking into account all factors, including the end-of-life criteria and the commercial access agreement that replaced the updated complex patient access scheme, trastuzumab emtansine could be recommended for use in the NHS for treating HER2-positive advanced...

[131] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 66538)
    ... HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Jane Adam Chair, TA371 appraisal committee, November 2015 Andrew Stevens Chair, Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of TA371 appraisal committee, February Jane Adam Chair, appraisal committee, May 2017 7 Appraisal committee members and NICE project team Appraisal committee members The technology ap...

[132] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 66936)
    ...s The technology appraisal committees are standing advisory committees of NICE. This topic was considered by members of the existing standing committees who have met to reconsider drugs funded by the Cancer Drugs Fund and by committee A. The names of the members who attended are in the minutes of the appraisal committee meeting, which are posted in the NICE website. Committee members are asked to declare any inter...

[133] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 67881)
    ...eating HER2-positive advanced breast cancer after trastuzumab and a taxane Issue date: June 2017 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED Sally Doss and Zoe Charles Technical Advisers Bijal Joshi Project Manager Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration of TA371 Janet Robertson Associate Director Boglarka Mikudina and Helen Powell Technical Leads Jenna Dilkes Project Manager ISBN: [to be added at publication] National Institute for H...