TA509_final_appraisal.txt: 60 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 809)
    ...recommendations This recommendation is for a drug that has been available on the cancer drugs fund for several years and the committee recognised this as an exceptional circumstance. In this context, committee considered it reasonable to apply flexibility in its interpretation of the criteria for special consideration as a life-extending treatment for people with a short life expectancy, but that the weight applied t...

[2] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 1259)
    ...ars gained would not be at the maximum allocated in other, more regular, circumstances where the end of life criteria have been applied. With this in mind, the committee accepted that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, taking into account the commercial access arrangement, provides for an acceptable use of NHS resources. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 1 of 16 Final appraisal determina...

[3] term: '£2,395' (char offset 3069)
    ...ks by a maintenance dose of 420 mg in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel. Treatment with pertuzumab should be continued until disease progression or unmanageable toxicity. Price Pertuzumab is £2,395 per 420-mg vial (BNF 17). Therefore the cost of pertuzumab (excluding VAT) is estimated to be £4,790 for the initial dose and £2,395 for subsequent doses. The company has agreed a commercial access a...

[4] term: '£4,790' (char offset 3170)
    ...uzumab should be continued until disease progression or unmanageable toxicity. Price Pertuzumab is £2,395 per 420-mg vial (BNF 17). Therefore the cost of pertuzumab (excluding VAT) is estimated to be £4,790 for the initial dose and £2,395 for subsequent doses. The company has agreed a commercial access arrangement for pertuzumab with NHS England. The commercial access arrangement replaces the patient ac...

[5] term: '£2,395' (char offset 3202)
    ... disease progression or unmanageable toxicity. Price Pertuzumab is £2,395 per 420-mg vial (BNF 17). Therefore the cost of pertuzumab (excluding VAT) is estimated to be £4,790 for the initial dose and £2,395 for subsequent doses. The company has agreed a commercial access arrangement for pertuzumab with NHS England. The commercial access arrangement replaces the patient access scheme agreed with the Depa...

[6] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 5578)
    ...eks, and docetaxel 75 to 100 mg/m2 (at investigator discretion) every 3 weeks for at least 6 cycles. 4 Committee discussion 4.1 The appraisal committee reviewed the data available on the clinical and cost effectiveness of pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel, having considered evidence on the nature of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast ...

[7] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 6309)
    ...nefits of pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel by people with the condition, those who represent them, and clinical experts. It also took into account the effective use of NHS resources. 4.2 The committee discussed the management of HER2-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast cancer. It noted comments received from professional groups that over 90% of people in the UK with HER2-positive br...

[8] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 7192)
    ...hlighted that the introduction of neoadjuvant or adjuvant trastuzumab for early breast cancer had dramatically changed the disease course and prognosis of people with HER2-positive breast cancer. The committee concluded that in clinical practice pertuzumab would be used in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel or paclitaxel for treating HER2-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast cancer in...

[9] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 8711)
    ...ommittee also heard from the patient experts that they consider pertuzumab to be an innovative technology because of the benefits shown in terms of progression-free survival and overall survival. The committee concluded that the availability of new treatments such as pertuzumab is important to people with HER2-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast cancer. 4.4 When it reconsidered the evidence ...

[10] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 9373)
    ...esectable breast cancer who meet the criteria. The committee heard from the NHS England representative that although pertuzumab may be perceived by patients and clinicians to be standard of care, the Cancer Drugs Fund was always intended to be a temporary mechanism for access to treatments that have not been recommended by NICE. For this reason pertuzumab with trastuzumab and docetaxel cannot be strictly considere...

[11] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 13536)
    ...linical expert that people who had experienced a 12-month disease-free interval might be expected to have a better prognosis than the whole population with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. The committee considered that there were differences between the population in the CLEOPATRA trial and people currently having treatment for HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer in the NHS, and expressed some reservations ...

[12] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 14329)
    ...of patients who might have a better prognosis, and the inclusion of only small numbers of people previously treated with HER2-targeted therapies, which might affect their subsequent response. 4.7 The committee discussed the end points in the CLEOPATRA trial. It noted that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel was National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 7 of 16 Final appraisal determination – Pertu...

[13] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 15692)
    ...ll survival benefit is unprecedented in the treatment and palliation of advanced breast cancer and represents a step change in the treatment of patients with HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. The committee concluded that the addition of pertuzumab to trastuzumab and docetaxel results in substantial benefits for patients in improved progression-free and overall survival. Cost effectiveness 4.8 The committee consi...

[14] term: 'Cost effectiveness' (char offset 15869)
    ...ced breast cancer. The committee concluded that the addition of pertuzumab to trastuzumab and docetaxel results in substantial benefits for patients in improved progression-free and overall survival. Cost effectiveness 4.8 The committee considered the structure, assumptions and results of the company’s economic model, which was based on data from CLEOPATRA. It noted that the ERG considered the company’s model struc...

[15] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 15896)
    ...ittee concluded that the addition of pertuzumab to trastuzumab and docetaxel results in substantial benefits for patients in improved progression-free and overall survival. Cost effectiveness 4.8 The committee considered the structure, assumptions and results of the company’s economic model, which was based on data from CLEOPATRA. It noted that the ERG considered the company’s model structure to be appropriate to des...

[16] term: 'cost effectiveness' (char offset 16424)
    ...odel structure had been used in other appraisals of metastatic breast cancer. It concluded that the model adhered to the NICE reference case for economic analysis and was acceptable for assessing the cost effectiveness of pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel for treating HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 8 of 16 Final appraisal determination – Pertuz...

[17] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 16825)
    ...mination – Pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel for treating HER2-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast cancer Issue date: January 2018 CONFIDENTIAL 4.9 The committee considered the way in which progression-free survival and overall survival data had been extrapolated in the company’s model. It noted that the company’s base-case cost- effectiveness estimate for pertuzumab in...

[18] term: '£30,000' (char offset 17152)
    ...s model. It noted that the company’s base-case cost- effectiveness estimate for pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel is associated with a 0% probability of being cost effective at £30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The committee further considered the deterministic sensitivity analysis and the ERG’s exploratory analysis, which demonstrated that the model was sensiti...

[19] term: 'QALY' (char offset 17192)
    ...e-case cost- effectiveness estimate for pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel is associated with a 0% probability of being cost effective at £30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The committee further considered the deterministic sensitivity analysis and the ERG’s exploratory analysis, which demonstrated that the model was sensitive to the long-term projection of ove...

[20] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 17452)
    ...stic sensitivity analysis and the ERG’s exploratory analysis, which demonstrated that the model was sensitive to the long-term projection of overall survival. 4.10 At its first committee meeting, the committee considered the most plausible incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel compared with trastuzumab and docetaxel presented by the company and by the ERG in its exp...

[21] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 17504)
    ...analysis, which demonstrated that the model was sensitive to the long-term projection of overall survival. 4.10 At its first committee meeting, the committee considered the most plausible incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel compared with trastuzumab and docetaxel presented by the company and by the ERG in its exploratory analyses. These were based on list prices...

[22] term: 'ICER' (char offset 17530)
    ...ed that the model was sensitive to the long-term projection of overall survival. 4.10 At its first committee meeting, the committee considered the most plausible incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel compared with trastuzumab and docetaxel presented by the company and by the ERG in its exploratory analyses. These were based on list prices for the tec...

[23] term: 'ICER' (char offset 17803)
    ...umab and docetaxel presented by the company and by the ERG in its exploratory analyses. These were based on list prices for the technologies concerned.The committee noted that the company’s base-case ICER was well outside the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It noted that the ERG’s preferred ICER was based on an assumption of no benefit from pertuzumab in the post...

[24] term: 'ICER' (char offset 17934)
    ...hnologies concerned.The committee noted that the company’s base-case ICER was well outside the range normally considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. It noted that the ERG’s preferred ICER was based on an assumption of no benefit from pertuzumab in the post-progression state and this reflected the worst case scenario. At that stage, the committee noted the considerable uncertainty arou...

[25] term: 'ICER' (char offset 18298)
    ... noted the considerable uncertainty around the presence or magnitude of benefit from pertuzumab in the post-progression state when treatment has been stopped. However, even if the company’s base-case ICER was accepted as plausible, there was a 0% probability that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel could be considered cost effective at a maximum acceptable ICER of £30,000 per QALY gained. The co...

[26] term: 'ICER' (char offset 18463)
    ...r, even if the company’s base-case ICER was accepted as plausible, there was a 0% probability that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel could be considered cost effective at a maximum acceptable ICER of £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee concluded that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel would not be a cost- effective use of NHS resources for treating HER2-positive National Institute fo...

[27] term: '£30,000' (char offset 18471)
    ...if the company’s base-case ICER was accepted as plausible, there was a 0% probability that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel could be considered cost effective at a maximum acceptable ICER of £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee concluded that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel would not be a cost- effective use of NHS resources for treating HER2-positive National Institute for Health an...

[28] term: 'QALY' (char offset 18483)
    ...ny’s base-case ICER was accepted as plausible, there was a 0% probability that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel could be considered cost effective at a maximum acceptable ICER of £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee concluded that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel would not be a cost- effective use of NHS resources for treating HER2-positive National Institute for Health and Care Ex...

[29] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 18500)
    ...ER was accepted as plausible, there was a 0% probability that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel could be considered cost effective at a maximum acceptable ICER of £30,000 per QALY gained. The committee concluded that pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and docetaxel would not be a cost- effective use of NHS resources for treating HER2-positive National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 9 of 16 Final appr...

[30] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 19067)
    ...le breast cancer Issue date: January 2018 CONFIDENTIAL metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast cancer compared with trastuzumab and docetaxel alone. 4.11 In its revised submission for the Cancer Drugs Fund reconsideration, the company included:  an additional 2 years follow-up data from CLEOPATRA, used to model progression-free and overall survival  a commercial access arrangement between Roche and N...

[31] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 19782)
    ...ing the utility values for progression-free and progression health states in response to errors identified by the ERG  evidence on the uptake of pertuzumab with trastuzumab and docetaxel through the Cancer Drugs Fund since April 2013  a request for flexibility in the application of the life expectancy criteria in this appraisal. 4.12 The committee considered the company’s updated economic model and the ERG’s cri...

[32] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 19924)
    ... of pertuzumab with trastuzumab and docetaxel through the Cancer Drugs Fund since April 2013  a request for flexibility in the application of the life expectancy criteria in this appraisal. 4.12 The committee considered the company’s updated economic model and the ERG’s critique and exploratory analyses. The committee considered several amendments made by the ERG to the updated company model to explore the impact on...

[33] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 20035)
    ...exibility in the application of the life expectancy criteria in this appraisal. 4.12 The committee considered the company’s updated economic model and the ERG’s critique and exploratory analyses. The committee considered several amendments made by the ERG to the updated company model to explore the impact on the company ICER. The ERG used digitalised values for the Swain et al. paper (based on the final analysis of t...

[34] term: 'ICER' (char offset 20157)
    ...s updated economic model and the ERG’s critique and exploratory analyses. The committee considered several amendments made by the ERG to the updated company model to explore the impact on the company ICER. The ERG used digitalised values for the Swain et al. paper (based on the final analysis of the CLEOPATRA data) to validate the company’s long-term extrapolation of progression-free and overall survi...

[35] term: 'ICER' (char offset 20995)
    ...e updated company model) and an exponential extrapolation of the overall survival data (compared with gamma function in the updated company model) the method of extrapolation had little effect on the ICER. The ERG also corrected an error in the mean age of participants who estimated utility, which should have been 47 years for consistency with the participants in the original EQ-5D calibration panel (...

[36] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21276)
    ...ed utility, which should have been 47 years for consistency with the participants in the original EQ-5D calibration panel (but was 38.2 years in the company model). This also had little effect on the ICER. The committee was reassured that although the combined effect of the ERG’s changes slightly increased the ICER it remained similar to the company’s base-case ICER. The ICER is commercial in confiden...

[37] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21388)
    ...ion panel (but was 38.2 years in the company model). This also had little effect on the ICER. The committee was reassured that although the combined effect of the ERG’s changes slightly increased the ICER it remained similar to the company’s base-case ICER. The ICER is commercial in confidence to protect the confidentiality of the commercial access agreement. The committee accepted that the commercial...

[38] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21440)
    ... This also had little effect on the ICER. The committee was reassured that although the combined effect of the ERG’s changes slightly increased the ICER it remained similar to the company’s base-case ICER. The ICER is commercial in confidence to protect the confidentiality of the commercial access agreement. The committee accepted that the commercial access arrangement reduced the ICER from the origin...

[39] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21450)
    ... had little effect on the ICER. The committee was reassured that although the combined effect of the ERG’s changes slightly increased the ICER it remained similar to the company’s base-case ICER. The ICER is commercial in confidence to protect the confidentiality of the commercial access agreement. The committee accepted that the commercial access arrangement reduced the ICER from the original submiss...

[40] term: 'ICER' (char offset 21624)
    ...any’s base-case ICER. The ICER is commercial in confidence to protect the confidentiality of the commercial access agreement. The committee accepted that the commercial access arrangement reduced the ICER from the original submission, but that it still remained in excess of what is considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources for technologies that are not given special consideration as life-...

[41] term: 'committee discussed' (char offset 21911)
    ...idered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources for technologies that are not given special consideration as life- extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy. Innovation 4.13 The committee discussed whether pertuzumab should be considered an innovative treatment. It noted that the clinical expert emphasised the benefits of HER2 therapies in changing the prognosis of people with this disease and ...

[42] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 22418)
    ...herapy. Patient experts regard it as an innovative treatment because it significantly increases the duration of progression-free survival, thereby maintaining a good quality of life for patients. The committee considered that the innovative nature of pertuzumab had been demonstrated in the statistically significant progression-free survival gain in CLEOPATRA and had been National Institute for Health and Care Excelle...

[43] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 22909)
    ...tion with trastuzumab and docetaxel for treating HER2-positive metastatic or locally recurrent unresectable breast cancer Issue date: January 2018 CONFIDENTIAL incorporated in the economic model. The committee concluded that all relevant health-related benefits of pertuzumab had been captured in the QALY calculation. End-of-life considerations 4.14 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments ...

[44] term: 'QALY' (char offset 23010)
    ...ctable breast cancer Issue date: January 2018 CONFIDENTIAL incorporated in the economic model. The committee concluded that all relevant health-related benefits of pertuzumab had been captured in the QALY calculation. End-of-life considerations 4.14 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology a...

[45] term: 'End-of-life' (char offset 23028)
    ...er Issue date: January 2018 CONFIDENTIAL incorporated in the economic model. The committee concluded that all relevant health-related benefits of pertuzumab had been captured in the QALY calculation. End-of-life considerations 4.14 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology appraisal process and meth...

[46] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 23064)
    ...TIAL incorporated in the economic model. The committee concluded that all relevant health-related benefits of pertuzumab had been captured in the QALY calculation. End-of-life considerations 4.14 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology appraisal process and methods. The committee also noted the request fro...

[47] term: 'Cancer Drugs Fund' (char offset 23184)
    ... had been captured in the QALY calculation. End-of-life considerations 4.14 The committee considered the advice about life-extending treatments for people with a short life expectancy in NICE’s final Cancer Drugs Fund technology appraisal process and methods. The committee also noted the request from the company that the committee exercise ‘flexibility’ around the interpretation of the extension-to-life criteria (...

[48] term: 'end of life' (char offset 23658)
    ... normally less than 24 months) because of the substantial extension in overall survival of adding pertuzumab to trastuzumab and docetaxel. The committee acknowledged that the wording referring to the end of life criteria is deliberately expressed to provide committees with discretion required when they consider it reasonable to apply a weight to the quality adjusted life years gained in circumstances where o...

[49] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 24513)
    ...d that the life expectancy of patients on chemotherapy alone based on the unadjusted median overall survival in the control arm of CLEOPATRA was 40.8 months, which exceeds the 24 months stated in the end-of-life criteria. However, people in the CLEOPATRA trial may have a better prognosis than people in UK clinical practice (see section 4.6). The committee also noted the National Institute for Health and Care...

[50] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 25347)
    ... expectancy in the trial was greater than 24 months, the exceptional proportional gain in survival with pertuzumab in people with a relatively modest life expectancy should be taken into account. The committee concluded that it was fair and reasonable to accept that pertuzumab fulfilled the criteria for special consideration on this basis. 4.16 The committee recognised the exceptional nature of this decision, which ...

[51] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 25726)
    ...eptional nature of this decision, which it found reasonable in the context of ensuring continued access to a highly effective treatment option for people with advanced breast cancer. In this context, committee considered it reasonable to expect that the weight that needs to be applied to the quality adjusted life years gained in order to allow continued access would not have to be at the very maximum allocated in oth...

[52] term: 'end of life' (char offset 25988)
    ...hat needs to be applied to the quality adjusted life years gained in order to allow continued access would not have to be at the very maximum allocated in other, more regular, circumstances where the end of life criteria have been applied. With this in mind, the committee accepted that the ICER, taking into account the commercial access arrangement, provides for an acceptable use of NHS resources. Conclusion...

[53] term: 'ICER' (char offset 26079)
    ...ed access would not have to be at the very maximum allocated in other, more regular, circumstances where the end of life criteria have been applied. With this in mind, the committee accepted that the ICER, taking into account the commercial access arrangement, provides for an acceptable use of NHS resources. Conclusions 4.17 The committee considered that the updated clinical-effectiveness evidence cle...

[54] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 26210)
    ...ave been applied. With this in mind, the committee accepted that the ICER, taking into account the commercial access arrangement, provides for an acceptable use of NHS resources. Conclusions 4.17 The committee considered that the updated clinical-effectiveness evidence clearly demonstrates that the addition of pertuzumab to trastuzumab leads to a substantial improvement in progression-free and overall survival, which...

[55] term: 'cancer drugs fund' (char offset 26704)
    ...ring the clinical and cost effectiveness of pertuzumab the committee thought it relevant that pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel for metastatic HER2 breast cancer is currently a cancer drugs fund transition topic and will remain on the cancer drugs fund until National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 13 of 16 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab in combination with trastuzu...

[56] term: 'cancer drugs fund' (char offset 26762)
    ... committee thought it relevant that pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel for metastatic HER2 breast cancer is currently a cancer drugs fund transition topic and will remain on the cancer drugs fund until National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Page 13 of 16 Final appraisal determination – Pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and docetaxel for treating HER2-positive metastatic or...

[57] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 27834)
    ...The committee noted that there is no specific guidance in the methods for technology appraisal for disinvestment decisions. 4.18 The committee acknowledged the flexibilities in the application of the end-of-life criteria. The committee considered that the unprecedented survival benefit with the addition of pertuzumab should be considered in the light of modest life expectancy of these patients and concluded ...

[58] term: 'committee considered' (char offset 27860)
    ...here is no specific guidance in the methods for technology appraisal for disinvestment decisions. 4.18 The committee acknowledged the flexibilities in the application of the end-of-life criteria. The committee considered that the unprecedented survival benefit with the addition of pertuzumab should be considered in the light of modest life expectancy of these patients and concluded that it was fair and reasonable to ...

[59] term: 'end-of-life' (char offset 28115)
    ...nefit with the addition of pertuzumab should be considered in the light of modest life expectancy of these patients and concluded that it was fair and reasonable to accept that pertuzumab fulfils the end-of-life criteria. Committee further accepted that in the context of the exceptional circumstance this case presents, it would be reasonable not to be asked to have to apply the maximum weight to the quality ...

[60] term: 'ICER' (char offset 28396)
    ...tional circumstance this case presents, it would be reasonable not to be asked to have to apply the maximum weight to the quality adjusted life years gained by pertuzumab. The committee accepted that ICER, taking into account the commercial access arrangement, provides for an acceptable use of NHS resources. 5 Implementation 5.1 Section 7(6) of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (Co...