TA632_final_appraisal.txt: 37 matches
======================================================================

[1] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 2223)
    ...tansine increases the time until cancer progresses compared with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab with chemotherapy, but this is uncertain because there are differences between people in the 2 trials. The cost-effectiveness estimates are within what NICE considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. Therefore, trastuzumab emtansine is recommended. 2 Information about trastuzumab emtansine Marketing authorisation indicat...

[2] term: '£1,641' (char offset 2891)
    ...nt taxane-based and HER2-targeted therapy’. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics. Price 2.3 Trastuzumab emtansine costs £1,641.01 per 100-mg vial and £2,625.62 per 160-mg vial (powder for solution for infusion; excluding VAT; British national formulary online accessed March 2020). The company has a commercial arrangement (si...

[3] term: '£2,625' (char offset 2921)
    ...ted therapy’. Dosage in the marketing authorisation 2.2 The dosage schedule is available in the summary of product characteristics. Price 2.3 Trastuzumab emtansine costs £1,641.01 per 100-mg vial and £2,625.62 per 160-mg vial (powder for solution for infusion; excluding VAT; British national formulary online accessed March 2020). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access s...

[4] term: 'discount' (char offset 3102)
    ...er 100-mg vial and £2,625.62 per 160-mg vial (powder for solution for infusion; excluding VAT; British national formulary online accessed March 2020). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes trastuzumab emtansine available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant...

[5] term: 'discount' (char offset 3196)
    ... British national formulary online accessed March 2020). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes trastuzumab emtansine available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtans...

[6] term: 'discount' (char offset 3222)
    ...y online accessed March 2020). The company has a commercial arrangement (simple discount patient access scheme). This makes trastuzumab emtansine available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine for adjuvant treatment...

[7] term: 'discount' (char offset 3349)
    ...stuzumab emtansine available to the NHS with a discount. The size of the discount is commercial in confidence. It is the company’s responsibility to let relevant NHS organisations know details of the discount. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer Issue date: April 2020 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 3 Committee discussion The appraisal ...

[8] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 8291)
    ...t with pertuzumab and trastuzumab is considered to show that the disease is resistant to this treatment, and the patient would benefit from an alternative treatment such as trastuzumab emtansine. The committee concluded that there is an unmet clinical need for an additional adjuvant therapy for people who have residual disease after neoadjuvant therapy. Clinical evidence Trastuzumab emtansine improves invasive disea...

[9] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 9895)
    ... was 0.44 (95% CI 0.28 to 0.68). For node-positive disease (n=797), the hazard ratio was 0.52 (95% CI 0.38 to 0.71). Interim overall-survival results are available, however the data are immature. The committee concluded that Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer Issue date: April 2020 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED trastuzumab emtansine improves in...

[10] term: 'committee concluded' (char offset 12151)
    ... preselected to be at higher risk. Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer Issue date: April 2020 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED The committee concluded that the results of the indirect comparison for trastuzumab emtansine compared with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and chemotherapy are uncertain, but they are suitable for decision making. Treatment-wa...

[11] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 13391)
    ...rs. However, it adopted the ERG’s approach after technical engagement. The company noted that all its exploratory analyses, with varied assumptions about the duration of treatment effect, resulted in cost-effectiveness estimates within the acceptable range. The committee accepted the ERG’s approach of using KATHERINE data and was reassured by the company’s exploratory analyses. It concluded that although the durati...

[12] term: 'Cost-effectiveness' (char offset 15259)
    ... It concluded that the utilities from KATHERINE, calculated per treatment for invasive disease-free survival, and the Lidgren et al. utilities for metastatic states were suitable for decision making. Cost-effectiveness estimates Trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab 3.7 After technical engagement, the company’s preferred incremental cost- effectiveness ratio (ICER) for trastuzumab emtansine compared with ...

[13] term: 'ICER' (char offset 15431)
    ...itable for decision making. Cost-effectiveness estimates Trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab 3.7 After technical engagement, the company’s preferred incremental cost- effectiveness ratio (ICER) for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab in the node-negative population was £8,829 per quality- adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The ERG agreed with the company’s revised base case in t...

[14] term: '£8,829' (char offset 15525)
    ...rastuzumab 3.7 After technical engagement, the company’s preferred incremental cost- effectiveness ratio (ICER) for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab in the node-negative population was £8,829 per quality- adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The ERG agreed with the company’s revised base case in this population. The company provided supportive data from the ITT population of KATHERINE. The I...

[15] term: 'QALY' (char offset 15565)
    ...t, the company’s preferred incremental cost- effectiveness ratio (ICER) for trastuzumab emtansine compared with trastuzumab in the node-negative population was £8,829 per quality- adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The ERG agreed with the company’s revised base case in this population. The company provided supportive data from the ITT population of KATHERINE. The ICER in the ITT population was £5,985 p...

[16] term: 'ICER' (char offset 15730)
    ...9 per quality- adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The ERG agreed with the company’s revised base case in this population. The company provided supportive data from the ITT population of KATHERINE. The ICER in the ITT population was £5,985 per QALY gained. The ERG preferred extrapolating invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, instead of the company’s prefer...

[17] term: '£5,985' (char offset 15761)
    ...ar (QALY) gained. The ERG agreed with the company’s revised base case in this population. The company provided supportive data from the ITT population of KATHERINE. The ICER in the ITT population was £5,985 per QALY gained. The ERG preferred extrapolating invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, instead of the company’s preference of Kaplan–Meier data and an ...

[18] term: 'QALY' (char offset 15772)
    ...ained. The ERG agreed with the company’s revised base case in this population. The company provided supportive data from the ITT population of KATHERINE. The ICER in the ITT population was £5,985 per QALY gained. The ERG preferred extrapolating invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, instead of the company’s preference of Kaplan–Meier data and an exponenti...

[19] term: 'ICER' (char offset 16006)
    ...rapolating invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, instead of the company’s preference of Kaplan–Meier data and an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £7,213 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of Final a...

[20] term: '£7,213' (char offset 16037)
    ...e survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, instead of the company’s preference of Kaplan–Meier data and an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £7,213 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab e...

[21] term: 'QALY' (char offset 16048)
    ...using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, instead of the company’s preference of Kaplan–Meier data and an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £7,213 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine ...

[22] term: 'discount' (char offset 16163)
    ... an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £7,213 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of Final appraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer Issue date: April 2020 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED 70%. Es...

[23] term: 'ICER' (char offset 16642)
    ...e NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. Trastuzumab emtansine compared with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab with chemotherapy 3.8 After technical engagement, the company’s preferred ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and chemotherapy in the node-positive population was £4,955 per QALY gained. The model assumed that chemotherapy would have been gi...

[24] term: '£4,955' (char offset 16768)
    ...with chemotherapy 3.8 After technical engagement, the company’s preferred ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and chemotherapy in the node-positive population was £4,955 per QALY gained. The model assumed that chemotherapy would have been given in the neoadjuvant setting and therefore no chemotherapy cost was included as part of the adjuvant pertuzumab plus trastuzum...

[25] term: 'QALY' (char offset 16779)
    ...herapy 3.8 After technical engagement, the company’s preferred ICER for trastuzumab emtansine compared with pertuzumab plus trastuzumab and chemotherapy in the node-positive population was £4,955 per QALY gained. The model assumed that chemotherapy would have been given in the neoadjuvant setting and therefore no chemotherapy cost was included as part of the adjuvant pertuzumab plus trastuzumab treatm...

[26] term: 'ICER' (char offset 17269)
    ...ny provided supportive data from the KATHERINE and APHINITY ITT populations, and it used the hazard ratio from the indirect comparison using the node-positive populations (section 3.4). The company’s ICER in the ITT population was £8,203 per QALY gained. The ERG preferred to extrapolate invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, rather than the company’s meth...

[27] term: '£8,203' (char offset 17300)
    ...m the KATHERINE and APHINITY ITT populations, and it used the hazard ratio from the indirect comparison using the node-positive populations (section 3.4). The company’s ICER in the ITT population was £8,203 per QALY gained. The ERG preferred to extrapolate invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, rather than the company’s method of Kaplan–- Meier data and an ...

[28] term: 'QALY' (char offset 17311)
    ...RINE and APHINITY ITT populations, and it used the hazard ratio from the indirect comparison using the node-positive populations (section 3.4). The company’s ICER in the ITT population was £8,203 per QALY gained. The ERG preferred to extrapolate invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, rather than the company’s method of Kaplan–- Meier data and an exponenti...

[29] term: 'ICER' (char offset 17545)
    ...extrapolate invasive disease-free survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, rather than the company’s method of Kaplan–- Meier data and an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £6,388 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, pertuzumab, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilar...

[30] term: '£6,388' (char offset 17576)
    ...ee survival using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, rather than the company’s method of Kaplan–- Meier data and an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £6,388 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, pertuzumab, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of 70%. Estimates that include ...

[31] term: 'QALY' (char offset 17587)
    ... using Kaplan–Meier data and a generalised gamma curve, rather than the company’s method of Kaplan–- Meier data and an exponential curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £6,388 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, pertuzumab, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of 70%. Estimates that include all comme...

[32] term: 'discount' (char offset 17714)
    ...ial curve. The ERG’s preferred ICER for the ITT population is £6,388 per QALY gained. These estimates include commercial arrangements for trastuzumab emtansine, pertuzumab, trastuzumab and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of 70%. Estimates that include all commercial arrangements remain within the range NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. The cost-effectiveness estim...

[33] term: 'cost-effectiveness' (char offset 17898)
    ... and an assumed discount for trastuzumab biosimilars of 70%. Estimates that include all commercial arrangements remain within the range NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. The cost-effectiveness estimates are uncertain but below what NICE considers an acceptable use of NHS resources 3.9 Both the company’s and the ERG’s preferred ICERs are within the range NICE normally considers an acceptabl...

[34] term: 'ICER' (char offset 18053)
    ...ders an acceptable use of NHS resources. The cost-effectiveness estimates are uncertain but below what NICE considers an acceptable use of NHS resources 3.9 Both the company’s and the ERG’s preferred ICERs are within the range NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources (section 3.7 and 3.8). The committee was aware of the uncertainty associated with the indirect comparison estimate (se...

[35] term: 'ICER' (char offset 18648)
    ...ppraisal document – Trastuzumab emtansine for adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer Issue date: April 2020 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED to 44). It considered that the most plausible ICER is unknown and could be higher or lower than the company’s and the ERG’s preferred ICERs. However, it agreed that the most plausible ICER is unlikely to be above what NICE normally considers an accep...

[36] term: 'ICER' (char offset 18736)
    ...breast cancer Issue date: April 2020 CONFIDENTIAL UNTIL PUBLISHED to 44). It considered that the most plausible ICER is unknown and could be higher or lower than the company’s and the ERG’s preferred ICERs. However, it agreed that the most plausible ICER is unlikely to be above what NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. It therefore recommended trastuzumab emtansine as an option ...

[37] term: 'ICER' (char offset 18786)
    ...UNTIL PUBLISHED to 44). It considered that the most plausible ICER is unknown and could be higher or lower than the company’s and the ERG’s preferred ICERs. However, it agreed that the most plausible ICER is unlikely to be above what NICE normally considers an acceptable use of NHS resources. It therefore recommended trastuzumab emtansine as an option for the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early ...