3 Committee discussion
The evaluation committee considered evidence submitted by Daiichi Sankyo, a review of this submission by the external assessment group (EAG), and responses from stakeholders. See the committee papers for full details of the evidence.

The condition
HER2-low classification
3.1 Some breast cancer cells have a protein called human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) on their surface, which stimulates them to grow. Trastuzumab deruxtecan binds to HER2 expressed on these cells. The committee acknowledged that HER2-low is a subgroup of the previously classified HER2-negative group.

Effects on quality of life
3.2 The patient organisation submissions emphasised that metastatic breast cancer can affect all aspects of a person's life: physical, psychological, social and financial. They emphasised that there can be considerable anxiety, fear and uncertainty because treatments only delay disease progression. The committee concluded that metastatic or unresectable breast cancer can have a profound impact on a person's quality of life and that people with the condition would welcome new, effective, targeted treatment options.

Clinical management
Treatment pathway
3.3 HER2-low breast cancer is managed with treatments for HER2-negative breast cancer. The committee concluded that because HER2-low is a subgroup of what was previously classified as HER2-negative cancer, treatment options used to manage HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer after chemotherapy are relevant to this appraisal.

Positioning of trastuzumab deruxtecan
3.4 Trastuzumab deruxtecan is the first licensed treatment for HER2-low metastatic or unresectable breast cancer. The company positioned it as a second- or third-line option. The clinical experts explained that trastuzumab deruxtecan is a targeted treatment that may delay the need for subsequent chemotherapy. They highlighted the unmet need for people with hormone-receptor and HER2-negative breast cancer, given the limited treatment options available compared with HER2-positive breast cancer. The committee concluded that there is an unmet need for targeted treatments for HER2-negative and HER2-low breast cancer. It concluded that positioning trastuzumab deruxtecan at second and third line is appropriate and likely reflects how it would be used in NHS clinical practice.

Clinical effectiveness
Data sources and generalisability
3.5 The main evidence for trastuzumab deruxtecan is from DESTINY-Breast04, an international, multicentre (7 UK centres), randomised, open-label trial comparing trastuzumab deruxtecan with treatment of physician choice (TPC). Of the 557 people included, 89% had hormone-receptor positive breast cancer, and 11% had hormone-receptor negative breast cancer. The EAG considered that the trial population was unlikely to be representative of the people in NHS clinical practice who would have trastuzumab deruxtecan. This was because they were younger and there was a higher proportion of people with Asian ethnicity than would be expected in NHS practice. Also, the trial did not include people with an ECOG PS score of 2. The clinical experts acknowledged that the trial recruited people who were younger and fitter than most people in the NHS with this condition. But they considered that these people reflect who would likely have trastuzumab deruxtecan in NHS practice, because they are more likely to tolerate the side effects. The committee concluded that the DESTINY-Breast04 trial population was likely to be broadly representative of people in the NHS with HER2-low metastatic breast cancer who would have trastuzumab deruxtecan. The committee also concluded that the trial evidence was suitable for decision making.

Composition of TPC
3.6 The comparator arm in DESTINY-Breast04, TPC, included 184 people. Of these people, 52% had eribulin, 21% had capecitabine, 10% had nab-paclitaxel, 9% had gemcitabine and 8% had paclitaxel. The EAG considered that the TPC arm in the trial may not reflect NHS clinical practice. In particular, gemcitabine is not used alone and eribulin is only recommended by NICE at third line, not second line. Also, the TPC arm did not include anthracyclines and carboplatin, which can be used at second line. It also did not include sacituzumab govitecan, which can be used at second or third line for hormone-receptor negative breast cancer. The clinical experts agreed that in the NHS, eribulin is used at third line and is the most clinically-effective option in the TPC group. The committee acknowledged that the TPC arm broadly reflected NHS clinical practice but concluded that second-line eribulin and lack of sacituzumab govitecan meant that the TPC arm was not fully generalisable to standard care in NHS clinical practice.

Effects on survival
3.7 Compared with TPC, people taking trastuzumab deruxtecan were more likely to have delayed disease progression and improved overall survival. For everyone in the trial who had trastuzumab deruxtecan, regardless of hormone-receptor status, there were statistically significant improvements in progression-free survival (hazard ratio 0.5) and overall survival (hazard ratio 0.6) compared with TPC. Similar trends were seen for the hormone-receptor negative subgroup, although the hazard ratios were not statistically significant because of its small sample size (n=58). The committee concluded that, compared with TPC, trastuzumab deruxtecan delayed disease progression and improved overall survival in people with HER2-low metastatic or unresectable breast cancer.

Economic model
Company's model for trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with TPC
3.8 To compare trastuzumab deruxtecan with TPC in people with HER2-low metastatic or unresectable breast cancer, the company used a partitioned survival model that had 3 health states, a 3-week model cycle and a 30-year time horizon. The committee concluded that the company's partitioned survival model structure is appropriate for decision making.

Modelling TPC
3.9 In the company's base case, the clinical effectiveness of the comparator was informed by the observed progression-free and overall survival data from the TPC arm in DESTINY-Breast04. To address the committee's concern about the generalisability of the TPC arm to NHS clinical practice, the company's revised base case at the second committee meeting used a cohort of the full DESTINY-Breast04 population (the DB04 cohort). In the DB04 cohort, both efficacy and costs related to second-line eribulin and gemcitabine were removed from the modelling. Across both groups, the number of people decreased by more than 30% (247 people had trastuzumab deruxtecan, 118 had TPC). The EAG noted the smaller sample size of the company's DB04 cohort. Also, it highlighted that more people were likely to have had 2 or more lines of chemotherapy in the DB04 cohort compared with the full DESTINY-Breast04 population. The clinical experts considered that the treatments used for the DB04 cohort represented the treatments used in the NHS. But there was a larger proportion of later-line use of these in the cohort than might be seen in clinical practice. The EAG agreed with using the DB04 cohort population and applied it in its base case and associated analyses. The committee concluded that the company's updated approach to modelling TPC was suitable for decision making.

Overall survival extrapolation
3.10 The company provided a log-cumulative hazard plot of overall survival in the DB04 cohort. It noted that this showed there was no clear evidence to support an assumption of proportional hazards between the trial arms. In the company's updated base case, it preferred the log-logistic distribution because it had better statistical and visual fit for both treatment arms. The company noted this provided clinically plausible long-term estimates that were aligned with clinical opinion and similar to those observed in the real-world Flatiron study. The EAG agreed and used the log-logistic distribution for the TPC arm in its preferred base case. But it considered that the size of the treatment effect for trastuzumab deruxtecan after 5 years predicted by the log-logistic distribution was uncertain and unsupported. So, the EAG explored using different survival distributions for the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm. It noted that the log-logistic or log-normal distribution predicted a survival benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan that lasted for more than 10 years. The EAG considered this clinically implausible because almost all people in the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm stopped treatment and had disease progression years earlier. It noted that the gamma fit for trastuzumab deruxtecan had a 5-year overall survival estimate between the log-logistic and the more pessimistic Weibull distribution. But the EAG noted that when it combined the log-logistic for TPC with the gamma for trastuzumab deruxtecan, the risk of death becomes higher for trastuzumab deruxtecan than TPC after 3.5 years, which it considered implausible. So, the EAG capped the gamma fit so that the risk of death for those on trastuzumab deruxtecan stays equal or below that in the TPC arm. The clinical experts considered it was difficult to provide a view on which curves gave more plausible survival estimates, particularly for 10 years. This is because they see very few people with this condition still alive at this point, so there is limited available data. The committee considered that the company's approach to extrapolate the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm was too optimistic and uncertain. The company extrapolating both arms with the log-logistic assumed a survival benefit lasting more than 10 years. The committee considered this clinically implausible because almost all people had stopped trastuzumab deruxtecan and had disease progression a long time before this. The committee also considered that the gamma distribution selected by the EAG for extrapolating trastuzumab deruxtecan had some limitations. But, the committee thought that the resulting 5 year survival estimate likely more realistic than the estimate from the log-logistic distribution. So overall, the committee preferred the EAG's approach of using log-logistic for TPC and a modified gamma distribution for trastuzumab deruxtecan.

Progression-free survival extrapolation
3.11 The company provided a log-cumulative hazard plot of progression-free survival in the DB04 cohort. It noted that this showed there was no clear evidence of a constant hazard of progression. So it considered that it was not appropriate to assume proportional hazards between the trial arms. It fitted parametric survival distributions to Kaplan-Meier data from the DB04 cohort to model progression-free survival. Based on statistical and visual fit, the company selected the log-logistic distribution for both the trastuzumab deruxtecan and TPC arms in its updated base case. The EAG preferred the log-normal distribution for the TPC arm, based on it having the best statistical fit scores and good visual fit. For the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm it noted that the log-logistic and log-normal distributions overestimated progression-free survival beyond the observed data, and the Weibull and Gompertz fits underestimated it. So, the EAG preferred to use the generalised gamma for trastuzumab deruxtecan in its base case. The EAG noted that the log-logistic predicts a progression-free benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan that lasts for more than 10 years. It considered this clinically implausible because almost all people in the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm stopped treatment and had disease progression years earlier. The clinical experts could not provide a view on which curves provided more plausible estimates. The committee considered that the EAG's use of the generalised gamma provided closer estimates to the observed trial data for the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm. It concluded it preferred the EAG's approach of using log-normal for TPC and a modified generalised gamma for trastuzumab deruxtecan.

Time-to-treatment stopping extrapolation
3.12 The company provided a log-cumulative hazard plot of time-to-treatment stopping in the DB04 cohort. The company preferred the generalised gamma distribution because it provided a good statistical and visual fit for both treatment arms, and clinically plausible long-term estimates. The EAG considered that the generalised gamma distribution was reasonable for the TPC arm and used this in its preferred base case. But it noted that with generalised gamma for both arms, the risk of treatment stopping becomes higher for trastuzumab deruxtecan than TPC after 42 months. The EAG considered this clinically implausible. So, the EAG preferred to cap the generalised gamma fit for trastuzumab deruxtecan so that the risk of stopping treatment stays equal to or below that in the TPC arm. Because of clinical plausibility, the committee concluded that it preferred the EAG's approach of using generalised gamma for TPC and a modified generalised gamma distribution for trastuzumab deruxtecan.

Utility values
Progression-free utilities
3.13 The company updated its approach to calculating progression-free utilities after consultation on the draft guidance. These were based on the EQ-5D-5L trial data mapped to EQ-5D-3L. The clinical experts considered that the updated utility values were plausible. The committee concluded that the company and EAG estimates for progression-free utilities were suitable for use in the modelling.

Post-progression utilities
3.14 In the company's original base case, it did not use EQ-5D-5L trial data to estimate utilities for the post-progression state. This was because the utilities were high compared with previously accepted utilities for progressed disease in people with metastatic breast cancer in other NICE appraisals. The company used an algorithm published by Lloyd et al. (2006) to estimate the expected post-progression utility. But, in the company's updated base case for the DB04 cohort, it did use trial-based data in a linear mixed-effects model to estimate post-progression utility values by treatment arm. The EAG considered that the trial-based estimates were uncertain because most of the post-progression EQ-5D data was collected within 3 months of progression. It noted that many of the observations of post-progression utility were for people still having treatment, with relatively few observations occurring between progression and death. So, these estimates may not properly represent the average utility across the whole post-progression period. The EAG preferred using the utility decrement from the Lloyd algorithm for progressed disease, adjusted for mean cohort age, applied to the trial-based progression-free utilities. The committee considered the differing approach of the company and EAG used to calculate post-progression utilities. It noted that in the company's updated approach, the values were high but were within the range of those accepted in previous technology appraisals in advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The committee concluded that the company's updated post-progression utility values were high but were within an acceptable range.

Post-progression utility benefit
3.15 Higher treatment response rates were seen with trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with TPC in the trial, so the utility values post-progression were also assumed to be higher in the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm. Originally the company had assumed this difference lasted for 12 months, after which everyone adopted the utility value for TPC post-progression. Without a strong justification from the company for the assumption of a 12-month benefit, the EAG preferred to assume this benefit lasted for 6 months because this was accepted previously for sacituzumab govitecan. The clinical experts noted that it is difficult to establish in a trial what the duration of utility benefit might be because another treatment is usually started after progression. In its response to the draft guidance consultation the company updated the duration of post-progression utility benefit to 6 months, which aligned with the EAG's position. The committee considered that there was uncertainty about the assumption of a differential effect in post-progression utilities. It concluded that it was reasonable to assume that the utility benefit for trastuzumab deruxtecan lasted 6 months.

Costs
Vial sharing
3.16 The company assumed that vial sharing would lead to no wastage in 75% of administrations of intravenous treatments for both trastuzumab deruxtecan and TPC. The EAG updated its base case after consultation to assume no wastage in 75% of administrations of trastuzumab deruxtecan and TPC. The committee agreed with this approach.

Administration costs
3.17 In the company's base case, it assumed that the cost per administration of all intravenous treatments was sourced from the National Schedule of NHS Costs 2020/21. The Cancer Drugs Fund clinical lead considered that different cost codes should apply to the different treatments and provided revised costs, which led to small reductions in the administration costs per treatment cycle. The committee concluded that the revised costs were suitable for use in its decision making.

Severity
3.18 The committee considered the severity of the condition. Both the company and EAG's estimates resulted in a severity weight of 1.2 being applied. The committee noted stakeholder comments that a higher severity weighting should be applied but understood that NICE's manual on health technology evaluations specified the approach for calculating the severity modifier. The committee concluded that the severity weight of 1.2 applied to the QALYs was appropriate.

Company's exploratory analysis with sacituzumab govitecan
Cost-minimisation analysis
3.19 The committee recalled that sacituzumab govitecan was not included in the TPC arm of DESTINY-Breast04 because it was not part of standard care for triple-negative advanced breast cancer at the time of the trial. The company explained that a robust indirect treatment comparison of trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan was not possible because of differences in trial populations and data reported between DESTINY-Breast04 and the ASCENT trial, the small number of people in the HER2-low and hormone-receptor negative subgroups of the trials, and limited data reporting in the HER2-low and hormone-receptor negative subgroup of the ASCENT trial. The company provided a naive, unadjusted comparison of the hazard ratios for progression-free and overall survival. Because trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan had a similar treatment effect compared with TPC, the company considered that an assumption of equal clinical effectiveness between trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan was justified. The company acknowledged that the results of the unadjusted indirect treatment comparison were highly uncertain, potentially biased, and not robust for decision making. The EAG noted that the results of the unadjusted treatment comparison were inconclusive. It considered that the relative efficacy of trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan remains highly uncertain. The committee considered that the unadjusted comparisons of trastuzumab deruxtecan with sacituzumab govitecan were highly uncertain. It acknowledged the company's reasons for difficulty in providing a more robust comparison. The committee thought that the unadjusted comparisons were too uncertain to support the assumption that trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan were clinically equivalent. The committee concluded that because of the high level of uncertainty, the cost-minimisation approach was not appropriate for decision making on the cost effectiveness of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with sacituzumab govitecan.

Cost-effectiveness results
Committee's preferred assumptions
3.21 The committee's preferred assumptions for the cost-effectiveness modelling of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with TPC were for the model to use the DB04 cohort that removed the efficacy and costs of second-line eribulin and gemcitabine, the log-logistic extrapolation of overall survival for TPC and the EAG's approach of a modified gamma distribution for trastuzumab deruxtecan, the EAG's approach to extrapolating progression-free survival using log-normal for TPC and a modified generalised gamma for trastuzumab deruxtecan, the generalised gamma extrapolation of time-to-treatment stopping for TPC and the EAG's approach of a modified generalised gamma distribution for trastuzumab deruxtecan, the company's revised estimates for post-progression utility values, updated treatment administration costs and a medical review cost, and a severity weight of 1.2 applied to the QALYs.

Acceptable ICER
3.22 NICE's manual on health technology evaluation notes that above a most plausible incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £20,000 per QALY gained, judgements about the acceptability of a technology as an effective use of NHS resources will take into account the degree of certainty around the ICER. The committee will be more cautious about recommending a technology if it is less certain about the ICERs presented. The committee noted that after consultation on the draft guidance, the company and EAG's updated approaches had reduced some of the uncertainty in the modelling of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with TPC. But some remained, especially around overall survival extrapolation and post-progression utility values. The committee recalled that in the updated model using the DB04 cohort, both treatment arms had a greater proportion of later-line treatments than might be seen in clinical practice. The committee took this into account when considering the acceptable ICER. It also recognised the unmet need in HER2-low metastatic or unresectable breast cancer and that trastuzumab deruxtecan was innovative with some potential health effects uncaptured. The committee agreed that an acceptable ICER would be around £30,000 per QALY gained, which is around the upper end of the range normally considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources (£20,000 to £30,000 per QALY gained).

Cost-utility analysis
3.23 Including all confidential discounts that applied to treatments in the model, and with the severity modifier 1.2 QALY weight applied, the company's updated base case ICER presented at the second committee meeting was above £30,000 per QALY gained. Also, the EAG updated base-case ICER was substantially above £30,000 per QALY gained when including all confidential discounts for all relevant treatments and with the severity modifier 1.2 QALY weight applied. Taking account of the committee's preferred assumptions including the severity modifier, the ICERs were considerably higher than £30,000 per QALY gained. So, the committee concluded that the cost effectiveness estimate for trastuzumab deruxtecan was above what it considered acceptable. The considerations with the biggest impact on the ICER were the overall survival extrapolation and the post-progression utility values.

Cost-minimisation analysis
3.24 The committee acknowledged that because of a lack of data it was not possible to establish the presence or absence of any incremental benefit between trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan. But it also considered that the evidence supporting the assumption of equal clinical effectiveness between trastuzumab deruxtecan and sacituzumab govitecan was highly uncertain. So, it considered that the results of the cost-minimisation analysis were highly uncertain. Considering the uncertainty, the committee concluded it could not make a specific recommendation about trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with sacituzumab govitecan in the population who would be eligible for both treatments.

Other factors
Equality
3.25 Stakeholders commented on the draft guidance that not recommending trastuzumab deruxtecan may disadvantage women, who are more likely to have breast cancer than men. The committee concluded that its recommendations do not have a different impact on people protected by the equality legislation than on the wider population.

Innovation and uncaptured benefits
3.26 Because trastuzumab deruxtecan is the first licensed HER2-low targeted treatment option for metastatic or unresectable breast cancer, the clinical experts considered it to be a step-change in managing the condition. The company considered there were benefits not captured in the QALYs, including maintenance of body image, sexual function and social function. The committee recalled that metastatic or unresectable breast cancer can have a profound impact on a person's quality of life. It noted that non-health effects such as financial effects and impacts on work are outside the NICE reference case for health technology evaluations. To account for innovation and uncaptured benefits, the committee agreed an ICER around the upper end of the range normally considered a cost-effective use of NHS resources would be acceptable.

Conclusion
Recommendation
3.27 With the severity weight of 1.2 applied, the committee's preferred ICERs were above £30,000 per QALY gained. Even after accounting for innovation and uncaptured benefits, the committee concluded that the most likely cost-effectiveness estimate were above what it considered to be a cost-effective use of NHS resources. So, trastuzumab deruxtecan could not be recommended for treating HER2-low metastatic or unresectable breast cancer in adults.
