The present study found that trastuzumab deruxtecan was unfavorable compared with the physician's choice of chemotherapy in the treatment of HER2-low advanced breast cancer at a WTP threshold of $200,000 per QALY in the overall population. The most influential driver of model outcomes was the cost of trastuzumab deruxtecan. When the cost of trastuzumab deruxtecan was reduced by 28%, the ICER of trastuzumab deruxtecan compared with the physician's choice of alternative chemotherapy agents for the overall population of HER2-low advanced breast cancer would fall below the WTP threshold ($200,000 per QALY).

In the subgroup analysis, hormone receptor-negative subgroups favored trastuzumab deruxtecan treatment because it was associated with positive INHBs and had a >50% probability of cost-effectiveness. The estimated ICER for trastuzumab deruxtecan versus the physician's choice of alternative chemotherapy agents was lower in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup ($194,424 per QALY) than in the hormone receptor-positive subgroup ($383,776 per QALY). Although multifactorial, it is notable that this may be due to the low potential clinical benefit of chemotherapy in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup. In the DESTINY-Breast04 trial, the hazard ratio for mortality was slightly lower in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup (0.48) than in the hormone receptor-positive subgroup (0.64), whereas the clinical outcome of trastuzumab deruxtecan in the 2 groups was similar. Therefore, although the overall cost in the trastuzumab deruxtecan arm was higher than in the physician's choice of chemotherapy arm ($252,546 vs $89,609), the incremental LYs (or incremental QALYs) were approximately twice as high in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup than in the hormone receptor-positive subgroup. However, considering the model hypothesis and the sample size from the DESTINY-Breast04 test, the results of subgroup analysis should be interpreted with caution. In the future, it is necessary to use the data of a larger sample size of this population to further verify the results.

There are also several limitations in our analysis. First, the health benefits of the DESTINY-Breast04 trial beyond the observation time were explored by fitting parametric distributions to reported survival data. Because the data mature beyond the observation time of the DESTINY-breast04 trial, it was necessary to update the survival data. Second, patient utility data were estimated from the previously published research on the health preference of advanced breast cancer according to unpublished quality-of-life data from the DESTINY-Breast04 trial. We also performed a sensitivity analysis for these utility values. Third, there is currently no official WTP threshold in the United States, and the WTP threshold of $200,000 per QALY was typically used to determine whether a cancer treatment was cost-effective. Therefore, the final results must be carefully interpreted and referenced. Fourth, the clinical data input in the model was derived from randomized controlled trials, which might limit the representation of real-world conditions. Therefore, with the availability of more real-world data, continuous economic evaluation was necessary. Fifth, it was assumed that the survival end points of the model are structurally independent, which was a potential problem of the partitioned survival model because there were many dependencies between the survival end points. In addition, the choice of subsequent treatments would have an impact on OS. These problems inevitably led to the uncertainty of our research results. Therefore, one-way sensitivity analysis and probabilistic sensitivity analysis were conducted to test the potential impact of parameter assumptions and uncertain parameters. Finally, the costs of outpatient oncologist visits, CT scans, and blood tests were not incorporated, as these costs were the same for each arm of the mode. Therefore, even if these costs were included, it would not affect the calculation of ICER.

The major strength of the present study was that it relied on the economic modeling approach to directly compare trastuzumab deruxtecan with physician's choice of chemotherapy in the DESTINY-Breast04 trial. Trastuzumab deruxtecan is a novel ADC with great potential for the treatment of HER2-expressing cancers. However, little information is available regarding the economic outcome of trastuzumab deruxtecan. Second, this study also analyzed the economic outcomes of the 2 prespecified subgroups in the DESTINY-Breast04 trial. Information from these subgroup economic analyses could be helpful to physicians and patients.

Two previous economic analyses have evaluated the cost-effectiveness of trastuzumab deruxtecan in the United States and China, and these studies focused on patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, which was different from our study population. The study by Yang et al evaluated the economics of trastuzumab deruxtecan from the perspective of the United States and China, with an ICER of $82,112 per QALY and $305,041 per QALY, respectively. A US-based study showed that trastuzumab deruxtecan was unlikely to be cost-effective compared with T-DM1 for patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, with an ICER of $220,533 per QALY. Because our study also elucidated economic outcomes relative to the 2 subgroups outlined in the DESTINY-Breast04 trial, it provides additional decision-making data for physicians who reference that trial for their development of a chemotherapy regimen.

Over the years, breast cancer treatment has become increasingly complex and expensive. The cost of breast cancer treatment accounts for a significant portion of health expenditures in the United States, with more than $12 billion spent on breast cancer in 2013 alone. The high price of anticancer drugs continues to be a barrier to access trastuzumab deruxtecan despite the interest of oncologists and patients regarding the clinical benefit in the DESTINY-Breast04 trial. Therefore, health care policymakers and payers need to evaluate the clinical value of medicines to ensure that patients are able to access them. This will permit their sustainability within national health care and reimbursement systems and pharmaceutical companies.

Conclusions
From a US payer perspective, the present model projected an ICER of $307,751 per QALY for trastuzumab deruxtecan versus the physician's choice of alternative chemotherapy agents in the overall population with HER2-low advanced breast cancer. Cost-effectiveness varied across hormone-receptor subgroups, but the ICER of trastuzumab deruxtecan versus the physician's choice of alternative chemotherapy agents in the hormone receptor-negative subgroup was below the WTP threshold of $200,000 per QALY. These findings suggest that trastuzumab deruxtecan may be a cost-effective option for patients with hormone receptor-negative, HER2-low advanced breast cancer.
