Discussion
In this study, we conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of T-DXd vs chemotherapy for previously treated HER2-low advanced BC, and the results revealed that compared with chemotherapy, the ICERs of T-DXd was $83,892/QALY, $82,808/QALY, and $93,358/QALY in all HER2-Low advanced BC patients (Scenario 1), HER2+ advanced BC patients (Scenario 2) and HER2- advanced BC patients (Scenario 3), respectively. Even the highest ICER value remains below the threshold for WTP of $100,000/QALY. Based on the results of this analysis, it was apparent that the HER2+ group had a higher survival rate, which was related to a lower ICER. The results of this model were robust, as determined by comprehensive deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. The results of the one-way sensitivity analysis suggested that T-DXd cost, HR for PFS, and OS played a significant role in determining sensitivity. T-DXd would be cost-effective if its price were reduced to $17.00/mg, $17.13/mg, and $14.07/mg at a WTP threshold of $50,000/QALY for all HER2-low advanced BC and HER2-advanced BC, respectively. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis of T-DXd revealed that for all advanced BC patients with HER2-Low, HER2+, and HER2-status, the probability of cost-effectiveness of T-DXd was 81.10%, 82.27%, and 73.78%, respectively, at $100,000/QALY. In patients with previously treated HER2-low advanced BC, T-DXd treatment is a cost-effective alternative to chemotherapy.

This cost-effectiveness analysis for T-DXd in treating HER2-low advanced BC is a novel approach that considers both parametric and structural uncertainties. We believe that this is the first study to examine the cost-effectiveness of T-DXd compared to chemotherapy for patients with previously treated advanced HER2-low BC. Cancer treatment is often limited by the fact that the most clinically effective drugs are not the most cost-effective. By establishing prices for novel treatments based on the value of the treatment they provide, value-based pricing is a new method of setting prices for novel treatments that are logically based on the fact that the optimal oncology treatment is becoming increasingly less cost-effective. Therefore, it is important to discuss the clinical outcomes of the study. The effectiveness of T-DXd in the treatment of metastatic BC associated with HER2+ status was previously compared with that of trastuzumab emtansine. Despite its clinical benefits in the treatment of HER2+ metastatic BC, T-DXd is not cost-effective because of its high cost. Nevertheless, in this study, we conclude that T-DXd may be a cost-effective alternative to chemotherapy in patients with previously treated HER2-low advanced BC.

The results of the one-way sensitivity analysis suggested that T-DXd cost was a sensitive variable. The price of T-DXd remains the most sensitive variable, and reducing the price of T-DXd is important to increase its feasibility. On August 5, 2022, the Food and Drug Administration approved trastuzumab deruxtecan for adult patients with HER2-low advanced BC who had received prior chemotherapy in a metastatic setting or developed disease recurrence during or within six months of completing adjuvant chemotherapy. However, T-DXd is not included in Medicare Part B in the United States. If Medicare Part B covers T-DXd and patients pay the Medicare Part B deductible, Medicare beneficiaries will have a certain percent co-insurance cost for T-DXd. The government announced American Patients First and aimed to construct a blueprint for cutting drug prices and reducing out-of-pocket payments in the United States. The availability of innovative treatments requires significant reductions in price and financial assistance.

It is important to note the advantages of this study. First, to our knowledge, this is the first study comparing T-DXd treatment with chemotherapy in patients with previously treated advanced HER2-low BC from the perspective of a third-party payer in the United States. The partitioned survival model was adopted to evaluate cost-effectiveness analysis. Second, T-DXd treatment may be a cost-effective alternative to chemotherapy in patients with previously treated HER2-low advanced BC. Third, physicians and patients may benefit from economic information regarding the expression levels of HER2 and other subgroups to make more informed treatment decisions.

Some limitations of the study warrant further consideration. First, health outcomes that extended beyond the duration of the DESTINY-Breast04 trial were assumed by fitting parametric distributions to the K-M OS and PFS data, which may have resulted in inaccurate results. Based on the results of the sensitivity analysis, this limitation may not be a significant factor; accordingly, this conclusion is generally considered robust. Second, the clinical parameters in the model were based on the results of the DESTINY-Breast04 clinical trial. Thus, biases within the trial may have affected the cost and effectiveness of the results. Clinical trial participants had a higher rate of adherence to treatment regimens than those participating in real-world settings. Third, it is important to note that the utilities used in the model were not estimated using DESTINY-Breast04, but rather from other health utility surveys in patients with advanced HER2-low BC. The cost-effectiveness analysis is also influenced by the assumption that patients in both groups have the same utility, which may lead to some bias in the results. Last, the grades 1 and 2 AEs were not taken into account. The findings in the one-way sensitivity analyses suggest that these limitations may not have a significant impact, as the costs and disutilities associated with AEs were relatively minor. In clinical practice, these adverse events cannot be ignored.

Conclusion
The results of these estimates indicate that from the perspective of third-party payers in the United States, T-DXd treatment may be a cost-effective alternative to chemotherapy for patients with prior treatment for HER2-low advanced BC. Economic outcomes can be improved by tailoring treatments to patients' needs. Clinicians may use these results to select appropriate treatment options for patients with HER2-low advanced BC.
